uh how do you feel about gun control
 	
 	
 		uh on the scale they gave one to ten i'd say i'm probably a four
 		i'm not totally i'm not
 		one of these people that believes that we should not be able to buy guns but i don't think we should be carrying Uzis either  you know what i mean  yeah i know i mean i don't think machine guns automatic weapons i don't believe in things like that but i think
 	
 	
 		some people do i know
 	
 	
 		that everyone should have the right to have a hand gun in their house if they so choose and but i think there should be some  restrictions when you buy one you know they should do more background search on you they should i think it should be harder to buy one
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah there's a lot of crazies out there that can just go in and buy a gun because they don't really ask a lot of questions when you walk into those stores
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		no they don't they don't ask anything except how old you are i don't think that's kind of scary
 	
 	
 		i'm from California  my mom the last time i was like purchased a gun my  my mom was getting a rifle for my brother that he wanted like an antique one  and
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		they he had to fill out some forms but i guess California might be tougher i don't know
 	
 	
 		yeah they might be or you know how we are here in Texas it's like everybody's a hunter so  i'm not much of a hunter but
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		it's
 	
 	
 		i've never even bought a gun myself my dad's given it to me or someone's given me one so i'm probably real illegal you know carrying guns that aren't even mine
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah it's a it's a hard decision to make
 	
 	
 		it really is uh the only problem i have with gun control is that they the radicals wanna ban all kinds of weapons and then the only people carrying guns are gonna be be the people who are gonna kill you anyway
 	
 	
 		like the bumper sticker  it's true yeah
 	
 	
 		yeah exactly right it really is because they're gonna get them one way or another they will always have a way look at drugs they always have a way to get that so
 	
 	
 		right
 		right right
 	
 	
 		and they're illegal so i don't think it would do us any good to outlaw them all together
 	
 	
 		
 
 		no i yeah i i i i i agree that it would be like people in
 		people that are uh criminals are the ones that are gonna get them and then you have no defense against these people when they do  come into your house or something
 	
 	
 		right
 		that's true
 		i think they ought to teach people how to shoot them too how to take care of one how to act around one when they buy them
 	
 	
 		yeah i have have gun gun have have gun management 101
 	
 	
 		right yeah exactly you cannot take the gun home until you've taken this course sign up here  something like that
 	
 	
 		yeah or required required required for every college student  oh
 	
 	
 		right exactly  before graduation
 	
 	
 		God gun control  it's it's such a heated topic in the the and people get so emotional about it
 	
 	
 		yep
 		oh yeah they do they get real emotional about it all the i've worked with a lot of people that hunt and they just they they don't see any sense in it at all
 		they think it's ridiculous to have any kind of gun control but then of course they're hunters they know what they're doing they don't realize there're a bunch of crazy people out there that
 	
 	
 		some of them are crazy too  whew yeah yeah they go out there and get drunk and start shooting
 	
 	
 		don't use it for that  well yeah that's true  they shoot each other thinking they're a deer  yeah darn i thought you were a deer Bob sorry my mistake
 	
 	
 		yeah Marge i don't know what happened to your husband he just never came back
 	
 	
 		looked like antlers i don't know
 		
 
 		yep that happens a lot too
 	
 	
 		yeah  oh
 	
 	
 		but i guess that's it
 		that's my opinion on it  so what now
 	
 	
 		
 
 		i'm not sure
 	
 	
 		uh
 		uh i think we just hang up yeah okay  thanks bye
 	
 	
 		i let's see
 		yeah yeah we just say good-bye and hang up okay okay okay thanks bye-bye
 	
 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		have you ever got one of those calls that's either generated by a computer or somebody going down a list and they're either
 		offering a service or
 		they're introducing some new product in the area and
 		normally when they call you're either in the shower or you in the middle of cooking something and you had to stop everything to run to the phone
 	
 	
 		yes yes
 		that is that one that you were talking about
 	
 	
 		that was the big one i'm talking about i work weird hours
 		and invariably just about the time i'm going to sleep the phone tears off the wall
 	
 	
 		uh-huh uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and you're trying to crawl out of a half unconscious sleep and answer the phone you either hear the click as soon as you say hello you hear the click of the recording coming on
 	
 	
 		
 
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		or you hear somebody already starting reading reading off a list of stuff that they've read probably a thousand times that day already
 	
 	
 		that's true or the ones that are are generated by a computer it's just a computer voice that comes on the line those are the ones that i really really hate too
 	
 	
 		even had some of them the
 		they're voice activated and you've got to say hello twice before they'll do anything
 	
 	
 		uh-huh uh-huh yeah sometimes i i get them on my uh answering machine at home so and i hate that when i've got a whole bunch of messages and i go through them and most of them aren't from anybody at all
 	
 	
 		what i would love to see done to stop all of this
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		we've got a thing in this country you can have your phone number unlisted
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		i think a law should be passed to where any of these people i think it's great that you know freedom of speech in this country and everything
 		but if they're going to offer these services or these recorded message everything they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them
 	
 	
 		um-hum yeah see i have an unlisted telephone number but i still get all of those calls and then some of them are speaking in a foreign language that i don't even understand
 		so yeah i do i really feel that that's uh an invasion of my privacy
 		i agree with you on that particular subject there
 		let me see
 	
 	
 		that's about that as far as any other everyday occurrences
 		i put a stop to some of them as far as the door-to-door either religious groups or people
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		peddling products if i wanted their products i would've either gone to the store to bought it or i would've called for their salesman salesman to come out
 	
 	
 		um-hum um-hum
 		yeah that's true living in an apartment complex though you know you can't um you can't really stop those people from coming around even though they put up signs out front that says no solicitations
 		uh but they still come up to the front door and uh you know walk around so usually what i do is i'll call the apartment manager and tell him hey there's people coming around you know and they're trying to sell something or or they're from a religious organization
 		and i really hate that i really really do i had somebody come to the door about two weeks ago
 		and um gosh it was about nine o'clock at night too it wasn't even what i would consider you know a family hour it's time to you know start going to bed and uh and it was somebody from um oh what was it the uh Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
 		and uh i've read a lot about uh that particular sect and i don't particularly care for it so i especially don't like for them to come up to my door and try and talk to me
 	
 	
 		now i agree with their right to um
 		pursue their religion of choice in that whatever manner they want to but i think they also should respect the sanctity of the American home whether it be in a house or in an apartment
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		i'm on my turf if i want them there i'll call for them otherwise i don't want to know they exist
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah yeah no i i agree with you there though i mean they want to choose that particular religion then that's fine with me too you know as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in and and i don't like the way that they do it either
 		and and it's their mission as they do as they go door-to-door and they go out into the public and they actually have the uh teenagers serving two years like you would say like in an army and two years in going around and doing missionary type work
 		and i don't know i just um i just don't particularly care for that at all and that that's one thing that i feel really strongly about though is uh you know people coming up to my door especially religious organizations
 		and wanting to uh you know to try and get me to join or you know become interested in their religion because i have my own
 	
 	
 		now the part about where you said the apartment complex puts up signs that says no soliciting i've even gone so far as to put that i've got a storm door on the front of the house and i've put in
 		i don't know how much clearer it can be it's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting i should have guessed i guess i should make another one that says religious or otherwise because i still get
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah that's true yeah no i don't uh i don't have i didn't go that far but uh yeah i probably could do the same thing uh you know i don't have a storm door but i'm sure i could rig up something
 		but you know i don't think that that would stop people i mean it's like they they see that word and it says uh go
 		instead of stop
 		oh goodness
 	
 	
 		wonder if there'd be some way we could get these people that do this get their names their addresses and their phone numbers and then reverse it and do well that would be technically illegal it'd be harassment
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh gosh
 	
 	
 		but i consider invasion of my privacy
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		a harassment in itself
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah yeah that's true that's true
 		hm well what else
 	
 	
 		i believe we've pretty much summed everything up
 	
 	
 		i know but i remember you you talked about something you started off and you said well let me think
 		you talked about the telephone calls people coming and soliciting selling things at the door you said something else
 		and i can't remember what it was
 		and i thought yeah that that kind of touched a nerve right there but we got uh we got to talking about the um uh people coming to you at the front door
 	
 	
 		i'm drawing the blank
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh goodness okay is our five minutes up
 	
 	
 		uh pretty close to it well i've enjoyed talking with you
 	
 	
 		pretty close
 		well it was nice talking to you too Jim
 	
 	
 		and take it easy now good night
 	
 	
 		okay thanks bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 
     		
 	
 		all right Amy how are you doing today
 	
 	
 		fine fine
 	
 	
 		oh all righty i think we know what we're going to speak about um tell you what i'll start off how's that
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		okay you go ahead
 	
 	
 		um i personally think to set a mark with the judicial system and we're talking about criminals criminal cases that they should bring back
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		
 
 		hangings on weekends
 	
 	
 		in public places
 	
 	
 		in public places there is one state that does that by the way
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		really what is that
 	
 	
 		i want to say Oklahoma i saw report something the other night about it
 	
 	
 		hm
 	
 	
 		they don't do them real often which is obviously the death penalty
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		um but i think if we quit uh building these Taj Mahals with the color TVs
 		and sixty dollars sixty thousand a year to keep an inmate in there on a on a on a life sentence we should start hanging them and get it over with and let's just screwing up the system uh
 	
 	
 		yeah well the sentences are so unbelievable i just saw on the news last night that they said the average time a sentenced murderer you know is in jail is two years before he's paroled and a rapists is like six months and a burglar is like two months
 	
 	
 		that's pathetic
 		that's pathetic it's
 	
 	
 		because they just say there's either no room in the system you know in the jails for them or
 		you know it's just that it seems like the automatic sentences if if a judge has leeway on what he's going to you know sentence someone for between you know two months and uh fifty years and you know what's his whim to decide it should be two months
 	
 	
 		this is true and and and and and the way the law reads uh if they sentence you to
 	
 	
 		you know it's crazy
 	
 	
 		life in prison then he's available for parole if it's if it's life and a day then he's not eligible for parole so what you know let's quit BSing with the system
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		well even if it's life like you say we end up spending sixty thousand dollars a year to keep some you know joker in there for life we could spend that money you know for starving children that are starving or twelve million other things would be more useful than that
 	
 	
 		exactly
 	
 	
 		so to me if somebody has life you know beyond a reasonable doubt they should that should be it you know particularly for some of these really
 	
 	
 		a life for a life
 	
 	
 		i mean there are so many just major major serial murders and it's not just like one instance or something it's just uh horrifying some of the murders that go on
 	
 	
 		the old Charles Manson case i mean the guy is really
 	
 	
 		yeah and the yeah there's just everyday you hear on the news of another one like that um
 	
 	
 		
 
 		just shouldn't be allowed to to even even live uh about the issue about sentencing by the judge
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		the the judge presently has an opportunity to intervene
 		uh when there's uh my understanding when there's uh a verdict and it for example there's a hung jury here in Fort Worth two day in eight to four and bam bam the guy got off
 		uh he was uh he he was a veterinarian and killed two a father and a son okay
 	
 	
 		right yeah i heard about that on the news yeah
 	
 	
 		um kind of gets back to the second request we've been asked to look at is most criminal cases requiring an ananimous verdict the a situation like that i'd say no let's just go like a regular vote eight to four tells me that there were eight
 		there's a percentage certain percentage of the people there with sixty percent of the people uh seventy percent of the people said hey
 	
 	
 		right rather than have to retrial the whole whole thing and spend all the money for people to you know go back to court and all the lawyers and i mean it just winds up costing the taxpayers a fortune you know a fortune to keep doing that
 	
 	
 		the guy's guilty
 		exactly
 	
 	
 		and the victims you know the family of these people that have been murdered they just have to have it dragged on for years and years before they ever get any resolution
 	
 	
 		exactly because it's not next day they have the start the trial which is X number of months and just prolongs the situation that much more
 	
 	
 		right
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		i think that that if it's if it's not a split decision uh go with the highest number and let's just get on with the program
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 	
 	
 		uh but as far as the sentencing by the judge i would have to vote against that since there's a jury because that's what the juries are for is to make the decision um what are your feelings
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 		well if i i saw on one of the talk shows this woman judge i believe from Florida and she just has just really stiff penalties and i saw that in in the hands of a judge that really was conscientious and really
 		you know took the pains to give a sentence for what was deserved it could you could have a a judge that would really make a good impact but likewise you could have the flip side
 		and have some judge that was paid off or you know had good a good old boy network or for whatever reasons you know politics just let all kinds of people through so he he would have a heck or she would have a heck of a lot of power
 		you know if used wrongly so at least the jury system does something to prevent that you know or help it with it anyway i don't know if it prevents it but  seems like the jury system does have it's advantages
 		but i also i've also heard on trials that sometimes they go through like three hundred jurors before they hand pick these jurors that they think are going to be the ones that are going to be the most lenient you know
 		and i don't know how much they're getting just a jury of their peers at that point they're really getting a select group it's not just random people
 	
 	
 		hm
 	
 	
 		it almost should be the first twelve people that they you know that have on a list are the ones that are on the jury and that's it
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah i get back to Price's comment when he uh was found guilty he said well he didn't have any blacks uh you know from his neck of the woods well give me a break you know
 	
 	
 		you know
 		
 
 		he'd have to have his whole family up there for him to feel like he's got his peers or something yeah
 	
 	
 		exactly
 		yeah yeah i mean you're you're in Dallas so everybody i can't believe they can uh like in a murder situations they look for juries who don't know anything about the system well or know anything about the the occurrence you'd have to be pretty dense
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		you'd be in have to be in a cave not to know what's going on or moving it to Lubbock or somewhere possibly is not the answer
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh they'd have to move it to Taiwan for people not to know about it practically
 	
 	
 		this is true so true well this has been an interesting conversation
 	
 	
 		yeah yeah
 		well really this is breaks up my afternoon from changing diapers and mopping floors i mean what can i say no i'm at home with two little kids preschoolers  my husband works for TI
 	
 	
 		oh so you're at the house you're not at the plant
 		oh hold it
 		oh that's good that's good i thought i heard a holler there in the background but i wasn't sure
 	
 	
 		so yeah
 		oh yeah i've got the dog and two kids waiting here i am locked up in the laundry room  okay thanks a lot bye-bye
 	
 	
 		oh goodness well i'll let you get i enjoyed it bye
 	
 	
 
     		
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		okay Ellen what kind of a car do you think you're going to buy
 	
 	
 		well as a matter of fact i was thinking about that the other day and uh
 		i really don't know the answer um
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		i would sort of like to uh think about something in the way of uh uh sort of a sporty car but not any not you know a luxury type
 		sporty one but um
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		something that still has a lots of amenities and you know gadgets and things
 	
 	
 		oh you do want a lot of that stuff
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah well yeah i like i like some of those things they come in really handy
 	
 	
 		what kind of uh
 		things are you going to consider you know what uh you said something about the about the
 		well what do you call them you said amenities
 	
 	
 		amenities
 	
 	
 		that they have but what about um their reputation of the company or the price
 	
 	
 		um well of course i guess uh price is always the big consideration
 		but
 	
 	
 		it is for me other people don't seem to have the same problem
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		
 
 		well that's that's a big one in my book but uh um
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		i have preferences for uh for some um makers over others
 		um and i would sort of like to buy American
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but you know i'm not so totally hung up on that that i wouldn't buy something else how about you
 	
 	
 		well um the last car we bought was American because of because of that reason but have not been entirely happy with um
 		several things about the car it doesn't seem like the quality is quite as high as i expected it to be
 	
 	
 		oh really
 	
 	
 		because several things minor things sort of but still they cost us money um that we didn't feel like we should have had to pay on a car that that was that new
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		you know we bought the car new and after  um well well well under two years we had to replace the clutch
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		and they just said well you know clutches are disposable and i said since when
 		brake pads are disposable you know we know that but i never thought a clutch was disposable
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 		yeah i wouldn't have thought so either
 	
 	
 		yeah so that was that was kind of a shock
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		oh yeah i i guess there's a lot to to think about when you're trying to make that decision
 	
 	
 		yeah you know the less actually the less you spend on a car it seems like luxury cars they're called luxury cars even though they're much more expensive like like uh
 		um a Mercedes Benz they don't have the history of breaking down or things like that that would go wrong would definitely not be considered disposable
 	
 	
 		right
 	
 	
 		you would never think of having to replace the clutch in a Mercedes
 	
 	
 		no but then um
 	
 	
 		especially not after two years
 	
 	
 		no but on the other hand i guess too uh whenever you do have to have some major work done on one of those it costs a fortune
 	
 	
 		really oh i don't know
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah i've uh worked with a couple of people who have owned uh various years uh Mercedes and
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		even though they do a lot of the work themselves then just buying the parts and everything is is pretty expensive but for them it's it's sort of a hobby too to own them
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		what kind of what brand of car are you thinking about buying or like what things are you looking at
 	
 	
 		well i haven't really really gotten that far with it um i've always sort of liked General Motors a little bit better than some of the others but uh
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		oh i guess i really don't know
 	
 	
 		how come  i've been kind of um
 		i guess the commercials are getting to me the Toyota commercials and i know that a lot of people i've i've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them that hardly had any problems at all
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah that i think that's
 	
 	
 		i think they have a really good um quality
 	
 	
 		um-hum my uh daughter has owned two different ones and uh
 		you know we've had some work done on them but it's not too bad and the reason one of the reasons we um
 		bought the first one was because a friend of ours had a Toyota that he just really drove for years and years and years and he lived way out in the country so he put a lot of miles on it
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		and you knew it had had been through a whole lot
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		and yet you know it it held up pretty doggone good so
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		i thought they would
 	
 	
 		they seem to be really durable
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		so i don't know i'm i'm not ready to buy a new car yet but i don't know if if the next time i'm going to try to
 		to stay with buying something American or if i'm going to go for a little more
 		what i would consider to be a long-term investment
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		well and i guess you know you always have to think about things like your gas mileage and stuff like that you know you
 	
 	
 		oh it's easy to get gas mileage in this car it gets excellent gas mileage
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah that's one of the big throwing cards for
 		some of the foreign ones
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		well
 		we talked long enough
 	
 	
 		i think so
 	
 	
 		okay well enjoyed it bye-bye
 	
 	
 		
 
 		all righty thanks bye-bye
 	
 	
 		
 
     		
 	
 		here goes Sharon
 	
 	
 		okay
 	
 	
 		well  what do you think about Nolan Ryan being the first baseball player to earn a million dollars
 		that's the only thing i found out tonight
 	
 	
 		oh you found that out tonight i hadn't even heard that that's great i think he deserves every penny of it
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but there are some others out there that i don't believe deserve the money they're getting
 	
 	
 		well isn't it funny how baseball's getting less than like football players would
 	
 	
 		oh yeah
 	
 	
 		wonder because football
 	
 	
 		and they play a lot they play a lot longer season too
 	
 	
 		and a lot more games right
 	
 	
 		yep that's exactly right
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		but i think let's see the teams that were there last year were
 		see somebody from California i don't even know who won the pennant last year
 	
 	
 		beats me i mean i know Yankees have won a lot of games through the years
 	
 	
 		yeah  not lately though
 	
 	
 		we have been talking about this i tried to call earlier
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and we had made a list of all these uh baseball teams and the cities that they were from then i started cleaning and i don't know where i even put that paper i yeah i was just cleaning and throwing
 	
 	
 		threw it away  oh gosh let's see the teams that  i think the A's were in it last year the Oakland A's and i think it was
 		i don't think it was an all California baseball
 	
 	
 		well have you ever played baseball
 	
 	
 		i play softball
 	
 	
 		well that's what i did when i was growing up
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		that was fun
 	
 	
 		yeah that's fun  that's a whole different sport
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		let's see but i think i think the Rangers need to go and i think the Pirates will go
 		and uh
 		let's see
 		Rangers have got a new guy this year i don't remember his name either
 	
 	
 		do you ever go see the Rangers
 	
 	
 		every once in a while i i like to go on the nights when there's not anybody out there not very many people out there it's a lot more fun when you're not fighting a crowd
 	
 	
 		yeah i think it's fun i like just looking at the billboards
 	
 	
 		yeah but sometimes when i if you go out there during the day you just fry under the sun
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah it's nice at night
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		that's when i've been
 	
 	
 		it is
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		and and do you know anything about that new stadium have you seen all those pictures that they're going to put out there
 	
 	
 		well
 		no
 	
 	
 		yeah that that huge it's suppose to be a huge stadium and it's going to have little shopping centers in it and little like a lake or something running through it and uh they're going to try to make it a real community center out there
 	
 	
 		and you're going to be able to buy your what was no wait
 	
 	
 		of course
 	
 	
 		what was it about the liquor
 	
 	
 		that's that's in uh Texas stadium where the football players play
 	
 	
 		was that
 		
 
 		oh yeah see you just
 	
 	
 		and they're never going to let liquor in there
 	
 	
 		well they're trying
 	
 	
 		i know but they try every year and every year they get thrown out
 		it's so stupid because they let you take it in there but they don't they don't allow you to sell it don't allow them to sell it there
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		but uh that new stadium's going to be real nice and i heard that there's uh
 		that you can bid on that stadium last night on the news i heard they said you could you could bid on the stadium to have it named after you
 	
 	
 		kind of right
 	
 	
 		it's going to it's going to go to the highest bidder
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		well that's the way to do it
 	
 	
 		so
 		yeah so that could be your you know fifteen minutes of fame
 	
 	
 		you hear that that's my kids turning on their music let me see  Holly turn it down
 	
 	
 		oh
 	
 	
 		i think it's the Bartman the Simpsons
 	
 	
 		oh God  i stay away from them
 	
 	
 		
 
 		i wish i could
 	
 	
 		i bet you do
 	
 	
 		yeah well where are you
 	
 	
 		in Plano
 	
 	
 		okay i'm in Garland
 	
 	
 		oh you are
 	
 	
 		yeah my husband my husband teaches in Plano
 	
 	
 		oh what's he teach
 	
 	
 		C V A E
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 		so what do you do
 	
 	
 		i teach but i teach for Dallas
 	
 	
 		oh you do
 	
 	
 		for right now i'm trying to get out
 	
 	
 		is that a tough system to be in
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		real hard
 	
 	
 		uh-huh i mean it's good because they they try new things you know but it's like
 	
 	
 		yeah i would think it
 	
 	
 		they'll try something and then they throw it out and get something else you know and you get tired of that
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		that's typical bureaucracy though that's that's i think it's going to be any where you go it's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones i don't know sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad
 	
 	
 		
 
 		yeah
 		well but they can't be though they don't have as much money
 	
 	
 		yeah but the politics the politics gets worse in the small towns sometimes
 	
 	
 		most the time
 		oh man but in Dallas you don't even know who's in in administration there's so many of them
 	
 	
 		you don't even know who to payoff huh
 	
 	
 		i mean somebody walks in the classroom and you don't know what they're there for you know when they're coming how long they're going to be
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh how funny
 	
 	
 		you know it's just them there they are and they're writing the whole time
 	
 	
 		no communication whatsoever
 	
 	
 		no i had them walk out of my class and not say their name anything and i finally got to where i go okay i'm Debbie Moore you know may i ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		you know because you know you never know where they're going  what they'll report or
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		i know
 	
 	
 		and they'll tell you they've written something down and you
 	
 	
 		and you haven't you and you never see it
 	
 	
 		hope they're telling you
 		
 
 		no huh-uh
 	
 	
 		that's got to be frustrating
 	
 	
 		oh it is
 	
 	
 		how long have you taught taught Dallas schools
 	
 	
 		uh this is my eleventh year
 	
 	
 		ooh that's about uh ten too many
 	
 	
 		no actually it's now my job's
 		good much better than a lot
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		because i'm Chapter One and all i do is teach reading all day long
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		oh
 	
 	
 		and it's just ten children at a time
 	
 	
 		well that's not bad
 	
 	
 		no it's good and you've got a lot of federal money too
 	
 	
 		but hasn't it changed a lot over the years
 	
 	
 		teaching  oh yes
 	
 	
 		yeah
 		or working in the system
 	
 	
 		yes when i first started teaching i remember i went up to my job and i said okay i want to see a curriculum guide you know so i'll know what i'm suppose to teach and they go
 		we don't have one of we don't even know where one is
 	
 	
 		
 
 		oh God
 	
 	
 		and  i go okay i mean you just you did what you  wanted to do
 	
 	
 		oh
 		how funny
 	
 	
 		and now they tell you what to teach and how long and
 		you know what day
 	
 	
 		yeah you don't know which is you don't know which is worse
 	
 	
 		what period
 		yeah no i know which is worse
 	
 	
 		yeah i guess so yeah being told what to do is worse
 	
 	
 		
 
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		so how long are we suppose to talk for
 	
 	
 		well you can talk for ten minutes but you don't have to
 	
 	
 		oh you can
 	
 	
 		yeah and no if you talk to ten then they come over on and say oh you've extended your limit and please say good-bye within the next five seconds
 	
 	
 		oh i haven't ever talked that long
 	
 	
 		well you know i hadn't either till last night i was talking to this retired administrator from Cleveland Ohio we started talking about gangs you know
 	
 	
 		oh how funny
 		he lives in Cleveland
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		wow
 	
 	
 		and everybody else that i've talked to has been right around here
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		but she was real interesting
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		and then tonight this woman called have you taken any incoming calls
 	
 	
 		the yours is my second one
 	
 	
 		okay so hers was the first one i got
 		gotten and uh
 		oh she was telling me all her problems
 	
 	
 		
 
 	
 	
 		and it went over ten minutes
 	
 	
 		did she did she did you all not talk about the topic at all
 	
 	
 		well yeah we did but the topic was boring i thought what would you serve uh if you were having a dinner party
 	
 	
 		oh
 		oh gosh
 		
 
 		what was i'm trying to remember oh the other the one i talked about the other night was good it was
 		um about movies you know who what have you seen at the movies lately and stuff like that
 	
 	
 		oh yeah i could go on and on about that
 	
 	
 		me too because we go all the time the guy i was talking to never goes he was boy it sounds like your really up on this and i said i see at least two a week  so
 	
 	
 		ooh neat
 	
 	
 		that was real good to talk about that have you seen like uh Silence Of The Lambs
 	
 	
 		no
 	
 	
 		you've got to go see that
 	
 	
 		the last one i saw was Dances Of The With The Wolves Of The Wolves
 	
 	
 		yeah we talked about that one too and he he said he didn't think it should of gotten all those awards he thought it was too long but
 	
 	
 		oh i enjoyed it i mean it was just more for my money
 	
 	
 		i
 		i did too
 		yeah i didn't think it was too long at all
 		um he said after about the first hour he started looking at his watch
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		the other one you need to go see is Sleeping With The Enemy
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		and how old are your kids
 	
 	
 		one is eight and one is eleven
 	
 	
 		you probably don't want to take them to see Silence Of The Lambs
 		it's it's not it's not too cool for kids
 	
 	
 		they usually pick their own
 	
 	
 		i bet they do
 	
 	
 		you know they've got it all figured out
 	
 	
 		yeah they want to see all the horror movies
 	
 	
 		well and Ninja Turtles
 	
 	
 		yeah Ninja Turtles got to have those
 	
 	
 		but most of the time really we watch them on the video
 		don't you just massive rental
 	
 	
 		oh yeah you bring that's well heck that's a lot cheaper then uh taking them out to the show
 	
 	
 		going to
 		i know
 	
 	
 		especially if you get them for a couple of nights you don't have to watch them all at one night one time
 	
 	
 		that's what we do especially when it's bad weather man just
 	
 	
 		yeah
 	
 	
 		plug it in
 	
 	
 		of course you have to get there early if you want to get anything
 	
 	
 		i know
 	
 	
 		decent
 		well
 	
 	
 		it's good when you go to Tom Thumb though and they're cheap and nobody's got them yet unbelievable
 	
 	
 		that's true
 		that's true we saw um
 		Heroes Has Always Been Cowboys tonight
 	
 	
 		uh-huh
 	
 	
 		it was okay it was kind of slow and i felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end you know
 		it just it and i don't know it one of those movies it's not going to be around long it'll be a dollar movie in no time
 	
 	
 		do you read
 	
 	
 		not very much no
 	
 	
 		no
 	
 	
 		i don't have the patience to read
 	
 	
 		see i do that to make myself go to sleep at night
 	
 	
 		yeah oh my mom and dad read all the time
 	
 	
 		you saw Field Of the Dreams right a long time ago
 	
 	
 		yeah sure did
 	
 	
 		so i was reading the book and it's called Shoeless Joe
 	
 	
 		oh really
 	
 	
 		it was so wonderful and then i was um i decided well i like this author so i got a uh book of his short stories and that's been real good
 	
 	
 		who's the who's the author
 	
 	
 		don't don't ask me  The Ghost Of Shoeless Joe was the name of the book
 	
 	
 		oh
 		
 
 		Shoeless Joe was it like the movie
 	
 	
 		yes quite a quite a bit but you know in the movie the guy was black
 	
 	
 		okay
 		right
 	
 	
 		he wasn't in the book
 	
 	
 		huh
 	
 	
 		that's one difference
 		there really wasn't a lot of difference
 	
 	
 		i didn't uh see i never even heard that there was a book tied in with that movie
 	
 	
 		um-hum
 	
 	
 		that's interesting
 	
 	
 		so
 	
 	
 		that was a good movie too
 	
 	
 		well do you think we've covered baseball
 	
 	
 		i think so
 	
 	
 		okay well have a good night


  

  


  

    
      So I guess this is  more  or less now just to get  you  up to date, Johno.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      This is what, uh,
    
    
       This  is a meeting for  me. 
    
    
      um,
    
    
      Eva,
    
    
      Bhaskara, and I did.
    
    
      Did you add more stuff to it?  later?
    
    
      
    
    
      Um. Why?
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      
    
    
       I  don't know.
    
    
      There were, like, the - you know,  and all that stuff. But.
    
    
      I thought you - you said you were adding stuff but  I don't know.
    
    
      
    
    
      Uh, no. This is -
    
    
      
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      Ha! 
    
    
      Very nice.
    
    
      Um, so we thought that,
    
    
      
    
    
      We can write up
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      an element,
    
    
      and - for each of the situation
    
    
      nodes that we observed in the Bayes-net?
    
    
      So.
    
    
      What's the  situation   like at the entity that is mentioned? if we know anything about it? Is it under construction?
    
    
      Or is it
    
    
      on fire or something  happening to it? Or is it stable?
    
    
      and so forth, going all the way
    
    
      um,
    
    
      f-
    
    
      through Parking,
    
    
      Location, Hotel, Car, Restroom,
    
    
       
    
    
      Riots, Fairs, Strikes, or
    
    
      Disasters.
    
    
      So is - This is - A situation are - is all the things which can be happening right  now? 
    
    
      Or,  what  is the situation
    
    
      type?
    
    
      That's basically  just specifying the - the input for the - w- what's
    
    
      Oh,  I  see y- Why are you specifying it in X_M_L?
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Just because it forces us to be specific about the values 
    
    
      here?
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, also, I mean, this is a - what the input is going to be. Right?
    
    
      So, we will, uh - 
    
    
      This is a  schema.  This is -
    
    
      Well, yeah. I just don't know if this is th- l- what the - Does - This is what Java Bayes takes? as a
    
    
      No, because I mean if we -
    
    
      Bayes-net spec?
    
    
      I mean we're  sure  gonna interface to -
    
    
      We're gonna get an X_M_L document from  somewhere. 
    
    
      Right? And that X_M_L document will say
    
    
      "We  are  able to - We  were  able to observe that w- the element,
    
    
      um,   of the Location that the  car  is  near. "
    
    
      So that's gonna be -  
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      So this is the situational context, everything in it. Is that what Situation is short for, shi- situational context?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So this is just,
    
    
      again, a- an X_M_L schemata which defines a set of possible, uh, permissible X_M_L
    
    
      
    
    
      structures,
    
    
      which we view as input into the Bayes-net.
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      And then we can r-  uh
    
    
      possibly run one of them uh
    
    
      transformations?
    
    
      That put it into the format that the Bayes n- or Java Bayes or whatever wants?
    
    
      Yea- Are you talking - are you talking about the - the  structure? 
    
    
      Well it -
    
    
      I mean when you  observe  a node.
    
    
      When you - when you say 
    
    
      the input to the  v- Java Bayes, 
    
    
      Um-hmm.
    
    
      it takes a certain format, right?
    
    
      Which I don't think is  this. 
    
    
      Although I don't know.
    
    
      No, it's  certainly  not this.
    
    
      Nuh. 
    
    
      So you could just - Couldn't you just run a -
    
    
       X_S_L .  Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      To convert it into the Java Bayes for- format?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      That's -
    
    
      That's no problem, but
    
    
      I even think that, um -
    
    
      I mean,  once   - Once you have this sort of as - running as a module -
    
    
      Right? What you  want  is -
    
    
      You wanna say, "O_K, give me the posterior probabilities of the Go-there  node,
    
    
      when  this  is happening."
    
    
      Right? When the person said  this,  the car is  there,  it's  raining,  and this is happening.
    
    
      And with  this  you can specify the - what's happening in the situation, and what's happening
    
    
      with the  user. 
    
    
      So we get -
    
    
      After we are done, through the Situation we get the User Vector.
    
    
      So, this is a -
    
    
      So this is just a specification of all the possible inputs?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
       And, 
    
    
      all the possible  outputs,   too. 
    
    
       O_K.  
    
    
      So, we have, um,
    
    
      for example, the, uh, Go-there decision node
    
    
      which has two
    
    
      elements, going-there
    
    
      and its posterior probability,
    
    
      and  not-going-there  and its  posterior   probability,
    
    
      because the output is always gonna be
    
    
      all the decision nodes and all the - the - a- all the posterior probabilities for all the values.
    
    
      And then we would just look at the, eh, Struct that we wanna look at in terms of if - if we're only asking about one of the -
    
    
      So like, if I'm just interested in the going-there node,
    
    
      I would just pull that information out of the Struct
    
    
      that gets return- that would - that Java Bayes would output?
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      pretty much, yes, but
    
    
      
    
    
      I think it's a little bit more complex.
    
    
      As, if I understand it correctly, it  always  gives you  all  the posterior probabilities for  all  the values of  all  decision nodes.
    
    
      So, when we
    
    
       input   something, 
    
    
      we always get the, uh, posterior probabilities for all of these. Right?
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So there is no way of telling it t-
    
    
       not  to tell us about the  EVA   values.
    
    
      Yeah,  wait  I agree, that's - yeah,  use - oh, uh   Yeah, O_K.
    
    
      So - so we get this whole
    
    
       list  of - of, um,
    
    
      things, and the question is
    
    
      what to  do  with it,
    
    
      what to hand on,
    
    
      how to  interpret  it,
    
    
      in a sense.
    
    
      So y- you said if you - "I'm only interested in whether he wants to  go  there or not", then I just  look  at that  node, 
    
    
      look which one -
    
    
      Look at that Struct in the output, right?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Look at that Struct in the - the output, even though
    
    
      I wouldn't call it a "Struct". But.
    
    
      Well i- well, it's an X_M_L Structure that's being res- returned, right?
    
    
      Oh. Mm-hmm.
    
    
      So every part of a structure is a "Struct".
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, I just uh - I just was - abbreviated it
    
    
      to Struct in my head, and
    
    
      
    
    
      started going with that.
    
    
       That  element or object,
    
    
      I would say.
    
    
      Not a C_Struct. That's not what I was trying to k-  though  yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      the reason is -
    
    
      why I think it's a little bit more complex or why - why we can even think about it as an interesting problem in and of itself is -
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      The, uh -
    
    
      Let's look at an  example. 
    
    
      Well, w- wouldn't we just take the structure that's outputted
    
    
      and then run another transformation on it, that would just dump the one that we wanted out?
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah. w- We'd need to  prune. 
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      
    
    
      Throw things away.
    
    
      Well, actually, you don't even need to  do  that with X_M_L. D- Can't you just look at one specific -
    
    
       No-
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah,  exactly.  The -  
    
    
       Xerxes 
    
    
      allows you to say, u- "Just give me the value of that, and that, and that."
    
    
      But, we don't really  know  what we're interested in  before we look at the  complete  - at - at the  overall  result.
    
    
      So the person said,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      "Where is X_?" and so,
    
    
      
    
    
       we  want to know,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      is - Does he want
    
    
      info?
    
    
      o- on this? or know the  location? 
    
    
      Or does he want to  go  there?
    
    
      Let's assume this is our - our question.
    
    
      Sure.
    
    
      Nuh? 
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
       
    
    
      Do this in Perl. 
    
    
      
    
    
      So we get -
    
    
      
    
    
       O_K .
    
    
      Let's assume this is the output.
    
    
       So. 
    
    
      We should con- be able to conclude from that that -
    
    
      I mean. It's  always  gonna give us a value of
    
    
      how likely we think i- it is that he  wants  to go there and  doesn't  want to go there,
    
    
      or how likely it is that he  wants  to
    
    
      get  information. 
    
    
      But, maybe w- we should just  reverse  this to make it a  little  bit more  delicate. 
    
    
      So, does he wanna know where it  is?  or does he wanna  go  there?
    
    
      He wants to know where it is.
    
    
      
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      I - I - I tend to agree. And if it's -
    
    
      If -
    
    
      Well now, y- I mean, you could -
    
    
      And i- if there's sort of a clear winner  here, 
    
    
      and, um -
    
    
      and this is pretty, uh -
    
    
      indifferent,
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      then we - then we might conclude that he actually wants to
    
    
      just know where, uh t- uh, he  does  want to go there.
    
    
      Uh, out of curiosity, is there a reason why we wouldn't
    
    
      combine
    
    
      these three nodes?
    
    
      into one smaller subnet? 
    
    
      that would just
    
    
      basically be 
    
    
      the question for - We have "where is X_?" is the question, right? That would just be Info-on or Location?
    
    
      Based upon -
    
    
      Or Go-there. A lot of people ask that, if they actually just wanna  go  there.
    
    
      People come up to you on campus and say, "Where's the library?"
    
    
      You're gonna say - y- you're gonna say, g- "Go down  that  way."
    
    
      You're not gonna say "It's - It's five hundred yards away from you" or "It's north of you", or -
    
    
      "it's located -"
    
    
      Well, I mean - But the - there's - So you just have three
    
    
      decisions for the final node, that would link thes- these three nodes in the net together.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      I don't know whether I  understand  what you mean. But.  Again,  in  this  -
    
    
      Given this input, we, also in some situations, may wanna
    
    
      postulate an opinion whether
    
    
      that person wants to go there  now 
    
    
      the  nicest  way, use a  cab,  or so s-
    
    
      wants to know it - wants to know where it is because he wants something  fixed  there, because he wants to
    
    
      visit t- it or whatever.
    
    
      So, it - n- I mean - a-  All  I'm saying is,
    
    
      whatever our input  is,  we're always gonna get the full
    
    
      output.
    
    
      And some -
    
    
       some  things
    
    
      will always be sort of
    
    
      too - not significant enough.
    
    
      Wha-
    
    
      Or i- or i- it'll be tight. You won't - it'll be hard to decide. But I mean, I guess - I guess the thing is,
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      this is another, smaller, case of reasoning in the case of an  uncertainty,  which makes me think Bayes-net should be
    
    
      the way to  solve 
    
    
      these things. So if you had - If for every construction, right?
    
    
      Oh!
    
    
      you could say, "Well, there - Here's the Where-Is construction."
    
    
      And for the Where-Is construction, we know we need to l- look at this node,
    
    
      
    
    
      that merges these three things together
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      as for th- to decide the response. And since we have a finite number of constructions that we can deal with, we could have a finite number of nodes.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Say, if we had to y- deal with arbitrary language, it wouldn't make any sense to do that, because
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      there'd be no way to generate the nodes for every possible sentence.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      But since we can only deal with a finite amount of stuff - 
    
    
      So, basically, the idea is to f-
    
    
      to feed the output of that
    
    
      
    
    
      belief-net into another belief-net.
    
    
      Yeah, so basically take these three things and then put  them   into another belief-net.
    
    
      But, why - why - why only those  three?  Why not the whol-
    
    
      Well, I mean, d- For the Where-Is question.
    
    
      So we'd have a node for the Where-Is question.
    
    
      Yeah. But we believe that all the decision nodes are - can be relevant for the Where-Is,
    
    
      and the Where - How-do-I-get-to or the Tell-me-something-about.
    
    
      
    
    
      Is food not allowed in here? 
    
    
      You can come in if you want.
    
    
      Yes, it  is  allowed.
    
    
      
    
    
      As long as y- you're not wearing your h- your h-  headphones. 
    
    
      Alright. Just a second. I'll be back.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      Well, I do- I - See, I don't know if this is a  good idea or not. I'm just throwing it out.
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      But uh, it seems like we could have - I mea- or uh we could put all of the- all of the r- information that could also be relevant 
    
    
      into the Where-Is node answer
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      node
    
    
      thing
    
    
      stuff.
    
    
      And uh -
    
    
      
    
    
       O_K.
    
    
      I mean -
    
    
      
    
    
      Let's not forget we're gonna get some very strong  input from  these sub- dis- from these  discourse  things, right?
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So.
    
    
      "Tell me the location of X_."
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       Nuh?  
    
    
      Or "Where is X_ located
    
    
      
    
    
      We u-
    
    
      at?" Nuh? 
    
    
      Yeah, I know, but the Bayes-net would be able to - The weights on the -
    
    
      on the nodes in the Bayes-net would be able to do all that, wouldn't it?
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Here's a k-
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh! 
    
    
      Oh, I'll wait until you're  plugged in.
    
    
      Oh,  don't  sit there. Sit  here. 
    
    
      You know how you don't like  that  one. It's O_K.
    
    
       Oh, do I not? 
    
    
       That's  the  weird  one.
    
    
      That's the one that's painful. That hurts. It hurts  so  bad.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      I'm h- I'm happy that they're recording that.
    
    
      That headphone. The headphone  that you have to put on backwards, with the little - little thing - and the little - little foam block on it?
    
    
      
    
    
      It's a painful, painful microphone.
    
    
      I think it's th- called "the Crown". 
    
    
      
    
    
       The crown? 
    
    
      What?
    
    
      Yeah, versus "the Sony".
    
    
      
    
    
      The Crown?
    
    
      Is that the actual name?
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      The manufacturer.
    
    
      I don't see a manufacturer on it.
    
    
      You w-
    
    
      Oh, wait, here it is. h-  This  thingy.
    
    
      Yeah, it's "The Crown".
    
    
      The crown of pain!
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      You're on-line?
    
    
      Are you - are your mike o- Is your mike on? O_K.
    
    
      Indeed.
    
    
      So you've been working with these guys? You know what's going on?
    
    
      Yes, I have.
    
    
      
    
    
      And, I do.
    
    
      Yeah, alright. s- So where are we?
    
    
      Excellent! 
    
    
      We're  discussing  this.
    
    
      I don't think it can handle French, but anyway.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Assume we have  something  coming in. A person says, "Where is X_?", and we get a certain - We have a Situation vector and a User vector and  everything  is  fine? 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      An- an- and - and our - and our -
    
    
      Did you just sti- Did you just stick the m- the - the - the  microphone  actually in the  tea? 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      No. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      
    
    
      I'm not drinking tea. What are you talking about?
    
    
      Oh, yeah. Sorry.
    
    
      let's just assume our Bayes-net just has  three  decision nodes for the time being.
    
    
      These three, he wants to know something  about  it, he wants to know  where  it  is,  he wants to go there.
    
    
      
    
    
      In terms of, these would be wha- how we would answer the question Where-Is, right?
    
    
      We u-
    
    
      
    
    
      This is - i- That's what you s- it  seemed  like, explained it to me earlier w-
    
    
      We - we're - we wanna know how to answer the question "Where is X_?"
    
    
      Yeah, but, mmm.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah.  
    
    
      No, I can - I can do the Timing node in here,  too,  and say "O_K."
    
    
      Well, yeah, but in the s- uh, let's just deal with the s- the  simple  case of we're not worrying about timing or anything.
    
    
      We just want to know how we should answer "Where is X_?"
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      O_K, and,
    
    
      Go-there has two values, right?, Go-there and  not-Go-there.  Let's assume those are the posterior probabilities of  that. 
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Info-on has True or False and Location. So, he wants to know something about it, and he wants to know something - he wants to know Where-it-is,
    
    
      
    
    
      Excuse me. 
    
    
      has  these  values.
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      Oh,  I  see why we can't do that.
    
    
      And, um, in  this  case we would probably all agree that
    
    
      
    
    
      he  wants  to  go  there. Our belief-net thinks he wants to go there, right? In the, uh, whatever, if we have something like
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      this here,
    
    
      and
    
    
      this like  that  and maybe here also some -
    
    
      You should probably 
    
    
      make them out of -  Yeah.
    
    
      Well, it-
    
    
      something like  that, 
    
    
      then we would guess, "Aha! He,  our  belief-net, 
    
    
      
    
    
      has s- stronger beliefs that he wants to know where it is, than actually wants to go  there."
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      That it - Doesn't this assume, though, that they're evenly weighted?
    
    
      True.
    
    
      Like -
    
    
      I guess they  are  evenly weighted.
    
    
      The different decision nodes, you mean?
    
    
      Yeah, the Go-there, the Info-on, and the Location?
    
    
      Well, d-  yeah,  this is making the assumption.
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      Like -
    
    
      What do you  mean  by "differently weighted"? They don't feed into anything  really   anymore. 
    
    
      Or I jus-
    
    
      But I mean, why do we -
    
    
       
    
    
      Le-
    
    
      If we trusted the Go-there node more th- much more than we trusted the  other  ones, then we would conclude, even in this situation, that he wanted to go there.
    
    
      So, in that sense, we weight them equally
    
    
      O_K. Makes sense. Yeah.
    
    
      right now.
    
    
      So the- But I guess the- k- the question -
    
    
      But -
    
    
      that I was as- er- wondering or maybe Robert was proposing to me
    
    
      is -
    
    
      How do we d- make the decision on - as to - which one to listen to?
    
    
      Yeah, so, the final d- decision is the combination of these three. So again, it's - it's some kind of, uh -
    
    
      Bayes-net. 
    
    
      Yeah, sure.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K so, then, the question i- So then my question is t- to you then, would be -
    
    
      
    
    
      So is the only r- reason we can  make  all these smaller Bayes-nets, because we know we can only deal with a finite set of constructions?
    
    
      Cuz oth- If we're just taking arbitrary language in, we couldn't have a node for every possible question, you know?
    
    
        
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
      A decision node for every possible question, you mean?
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      Well, I - like, in the case of - Yeah.
    
    
      In the ca- Any piece of language, we wouldn't be able to answer it with this system, b- if we just h-
    
    
      Cuz we wouldn't have the correct node. Basically, w- what you're s- proposing is a n- Where-Is node, right?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      And - and if we - And if someone - says, you know, uh, something in Mandarin
    
    
      So is -
    
    
       
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      to the system, we'd- wouldn't know which node to look at to answer that question, right?
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Mmm?
    
    
      So, but - but if we have a finite - What?
    
    
      I don't see your point. What - what - what  I  am thinking, or what
    
    
      we're about to propose here is
    
    
      we're always gonna get the whole list of
    
    
      values and their posterior probabilities.
    
    
      And now we need an expert system or belief-net or something that  interprets  that,
    
    
      that looks at all the
    
    
      values and says,
    
    
      "The winner is
    
    
      Timing. Now, go there."
    
    
      
    
    
      "Uh, go there, Timing, now."
    
    
      
    
    
      Or, "The winner is Info-on,
    
    
      Function-Off."
    
    
      So, he wants to know  something about it, and what it does.
    
    
       Nuh?  
    
    
      Uh, regardless of - of - of the input. Wh- Regardle-
    
    
      Yeah, but-
    
    
      But how does the expert - but how does the expert system
    
    
      know - how- who- which one to declare the winner, if it doesn't know the question it is, and how that question should be answered?
    
    
      Based on the k- what the  question   was,  so what the discourse, the ontology, the situation and the user model gave us, we came up with these values for these decisions.
    
    
      Yeah I know. But how do we weight what we get out?
    
    
      As, which one i- Which ones are important?
    
    
      So my i- So, if we were to it with a Bayes-net, we'd have to have a node -
    
    
      
    
    
      for every question that we knew how to deal with,
    
    
      that would take  all   of the inputs and weight them appropriately for that question.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Does that make sense?
    
    
      Yay, nay?
    
    
      Um, I mean, are you saying that, what happens if you try to scale this up to the situation, or are we just dealing with arbitrary language?
    
    
      We -
    
    
      Is that your point?
    
    
      Well, no. I - I guess my question is,
    
    
      Is the reason that we can make a node f- or - O_K. So, lemme
    
    
      see if I'm confused. Are we going to make a node for every question? Does that make sense? - Or not. 
    
    
      For every question? Like -
    
    
      Every construction.
    
    
      Hmm. 
    
    
      I don't - Not  necessarily,  I would think. I mean, it's not based on constructions, it's based on things like, uh, there's gonna be a node for Go-there or not, and there's gonna be a node for Enter, View, Approach.
    
    
      Wel-
    
    
      W- O_K.
    
    
      So, someone asked a question.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      How do we decide
    
    
      how to answer it?
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      Well, look at -
    
    
      
    
    
      look -
    
    
      Face yourself with this pr- question. You get this -
    
    
      You'll have - y- This is what you get.
    
    
      And now you have to make a decision. What do we think?
    
    
      What does this tell us?
    
    
       
    
    
      And  not  knowing what was asked, and what happened, and whether the person  was  a tourist or a  local,  because all of these factors have presumably already gone into making these
    
    
      posterior probabilities.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      What - what we need is a - just a mechanism that says,
    
    
      "Aha!
    
    
      There is -"
    
    
      I just don't think a "winner-take-all" type of thing is the -
    
    
      I mean, in general, like, we won't just have those three, right? We'll have, uh, like, many, many nodes.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      So we have to, like - So that it's no longer possible to just look at the nodes themselves and figure out what the person is trying to say.
    
    
      Because there are  interdependencies,  right?
    
    
      The uh -
    
    
      Uh, no. So if - if
    
    
      for example, the  Go-there  posterior possibility is  so  high, um,
    
    
      uh, w- if it's - if it has reached -  reached  a certain height, then
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      all of this becomes irrelevant. So. If - even if - if the function or the history or something is
    
    
      scoring pretty good on the  true  node,  true  value -
    
    
      Wel-
    
    
      
    
    
      I don't know about that, cuz that would suggest that - I mean -
    
    
      He wants to go there  and  know something about it?
    
    
      Do they have to be mutual-
    
    
      Yeah. Do they have to be mutually exclusive?
    
    
      I think to  some  extent they  are. 
    
    
      Or maybe they're  not. 
    
    
      Cuz I, uh - The way you describe what they meant, they weren't mutu- uh, they didn't seem mutually exclusive to me.
    
    
      Well, if he  doesn't  want to  go  there,
    
    
      even if the  Enter 
    
    
      posterior proba- So.
    
    
      Wel- 
    
    
      Go-there is No.
    
    
       Enter  is High, and  Info-on  is High.
    
    
      Well, yeah, just out of the other three, though, that you had in the -
    
    
      Hmm?
    
    
      those three nodes. The- d- They didn't seem like they were mutually exclusive.
    
    
      No, there's - No. But -
    
    
      It's through the -
    
    
      So th- s- so, yeah, but some - So, some things would drop out, and some things would still be important.
    
    
       
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      But I guess what's confusing me is, if we have a Bayes-net to deal w- another Bayes-net to deal with this stuff,
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      you know,
    
    
      
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      is the only reason - O_K, so,
    
    
      I guess,
    
    
      if we have a Ba- another Bayes-net to deal with this stuff, the only r- reason 
    
    
      we can design it is cuz we know
    
    
      what each question is asking?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I think that's true.
    
    
      And then, so, the only reason - way we would know what question he's asking is based upon - Oh, so if - Let's say I had a construction parser, and I plug this in, I would know what each construction - the communicative
    
    
      intent of the construction was
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      and so then I would know how to weight the nodes appropriately, in response.
    
    
      So no matter what they said, if I could map it onto a Where-Is construction,
    
    
      Ge-
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      I could say, "ah!
    
    
      well the- the intent, here, was Where-Is",
    
    
      O_K, right.
    
    
      and I could look at those.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yes, I mean. Sure. You  do  need to know - I mean, to have that kind of information.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Yeah, I'm also agreeing that  a simple
    
    
      pru- 
    
    
      Take the ones where we  have  a clear winner.
    
    
      Forget about the ones where it's all sort of
    
    
      middle ground.
    
    
      Prune those out and just hand over the ones where we have a  winner.  
    
    
      Yeah, because that would be the  easiest   way.
    
    
      We just compose as an output an X_M_L mes-  message that says.
    
    
      "Go there  now."
    
    
      "Enter
    
    
      historical information."
    
    
      And not care whether that's consistent with anything.
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      
    
    
      But in  this  case if we say, " definitely  he  doesn't  want to go there. He just wants to know
    
    
       where  it is."
    
    
      or let's call this - this "Look-At-H-" 
    
    
      He wants to know something about the history of. So he said,
    
    
      "Tell me something about the history of that."
    
    
      Now, the e- But for some reason the Endpoint-Approach
    
    
      gets a really high score,  too.
    
    
      We can't expect this to be sort of at O_ point 
    
    
      three, three, three, O_ point, three, three, three, O_ point, three, three, three. Right? 
    
    
      Somebody needs to  zap  that.
    
    
      You know?
    
    
      Or
    
    
      know -
    
    
      There needs to be  some  knowledge that -
    
    
      We -
    
    
      Yeah, but, the Bayes-net that would merge -
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      I  just   realized that I had my hand in between my mouth and my micr- er, my- and my microphone. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       So  then,
    
    
      the Bayes-net that would merge
    
    
      there, that would make the decision between Go-there, Info-on, and Location,
    
    
      would have a node to tell you which one of those three you wanted, and based upon that node, then you would  look  at the other stuff.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      I mean, it- i-
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Does  that  make sense?
    
    
      Yep. It's sort of one of those, that's - It's more like a decision tree,
    
    
      if - if you want.
    
    
      You first look o- at the  lowball  ones, and then -
    
    
      Yeah, i-
    
    
      Yeah, I didn't intend to say that every possible - O_K.
    
    
      There was  a  confusion there, k- I didn't intend to say every possible thing should go into the Bayes-net, because some of the things aren't relevant in the Bayes-net
    
    
      for a specific question.
    
    
      
    
    
      Like the  Endpoint 
    
    
      is not necessarily relevant in the Bayes-net for  Where-Is  until after you've decided whether you wanna  go  there or not.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      
    
    
      Show us the way, Bhaskara.
    
    
      I guess the other thing is that um, yeah. I mean, when you're asked a specific question and you don't even -
    
    
      Like, if you're asked a Where-Is question, you may not even look - like,  ask  for the posterior probability of the, uh, E_V_A node, right?
    
    
      Cuz, that's what - I mean, in the Bayes-net you always ask for the posterior probability of a specific node. So, I mean,
    
    
      you may not even bother to compute things you don't need.
    
    
      Um.
v    
    
      Aren't we  always  computing  all? 
    
    
      No.
    
    
      You can compute, uh, the posterior probability of one subset of the nodes, given
    
    
      some other nodes, but
    
    
      totally ignore some other nodes, also.
    
    
      Basically, things you ignore get marginalized over.
    
    
      Yeah, but that's - that's just shifting the problem.
    
    
      Then you would have to make a decision, "O_K, if it's a Where-Is question, which
    
    
      Yeah. So you have to make -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      decision nodes do I query?"
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
       That's un-  
    
    
      But I would think that's what you want to do. Right?
    
    
      Mmm. 
    
    
      Well, eventually, you still have to pick out which ones you look at. So it's pretty much the same problem, isn't it?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah - it's - it's - it's apples and oranges. Nuh?
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean, maybe it does make a difference in terms of performance,
    
    
       computational  time. So either you
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      always have it compute  all  the posterior possibilities for  all  the values for  all  nodes, and then prune
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      the ones you think that are
    
    
      irrelevant,
    
    
      or you just make a p-
    
    
       
    
    
      a  priori 
    
    
      estimate of what you think might be relevant and query those.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So basically, you'd have a decision tree  query,  Go-there.
    
    
      
    
    
      If k- if that's false, query this one. If that's true, query that one. And just basically do a binary search through the - ? 
    
    
      I don't know if it would necessarily be that, uh, complicated. But, uh -
    
    
      I mean, it w- 
    
    
      Well, in the case of Go-there, it  would  be. In the case - Cuz if you needed an- If y- If Go-there was  true,  you'd wanna know what endpoint
    
    
      was. And if it was  false,  you'd wanna d- look at
    
    
      either Lo-  Income  Info-on or History.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      That's true, I guess. Yeah,  so, in a way you  would  have that.
    
    
      Also, I'm somewhat boggled by that Hugin software.
    
    
      O_K, why's that?
    
    
      I can't figure out how to get the
    
    
      probabilities into it.
    
    
      Like, I'd look at -
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      It's somewha- It's boggling me.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Alright.
    
    
      Well, hopefully it's  fixable.
    
    
      Ju-
    
    
       
    
    
      Oh yeah, yeah. I d- I just think I haven't
    
    
       It's - there's a - 
    
    
       
    
    
      figured out what - the terms in Hugin mean, versus what Java Bayes terms are.
    
    
       
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      Um, by the way, are - Do we know whether Jerry and Nancy  are  coming? Or - ? 
    
    
      So we can figure this out.
    
    
      They should come when they're  done  their  stuff,  basically, whenever that is.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      What d- what do they need to do left? 
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      I guess,
    
    
      Jerry needs to enter marks,  but I don't know if he's gonna do that now or later.
    
    
      But, uh, if he's gonna enter marks, it's gonna take him awhile, I guess, and he won't be here.
    
    
      And what's Nancy doing?
    
    
      Nancy? Um, she was sorta finishing up the, uh,
    
    
      calculation of marks and assigning of grades, but I don't know if she should be here.
    
    
      Well - or, she should be free after that, so -
    
    
      assuming she's coming to this meeting.
    
    
      I don't know if she knows about it.
    
    
      She's on the  email  list, right?
    
    
      Is she? O_K.
    
    
      Mm-hmm. 
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Because 
    
    
      
    
    
      basically, what -
    
    
      where we  also  have decided, prior to
    
    
      this meeting is that
    
    
      we would have a  rerun  of the  three  of us sitting together 
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      sometime  this week  again 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      and finish up the, uh, values
    
    
      of
    
    
      this.
    
    
      So we have,
    
    
      
    
    
      uh -
    
    
      Believe it or not, we have  all  the  bottom  ones here. 
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, I -
    
    
      You added a bunch of  nodes, for - ? 
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      We - we - we have - Actually what we have is  this  line.
    
    
      
    
    
      Uh, what do the, uh,
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      structures
    
    
      Hmm?
    
    
      do? So the - the - the -
    
    
      For instance, this Location node's got two inputs,
    
    
      that one you -
    
    
       Four  inputs.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Four. 
    
    
      Those are - The bottom things are inputs, also.
    
    
       Oh,  I  see.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K, that was-
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      That makes a lot more sense to me now.
    
    
      Yep. 
    
    
      Cuz I thought it was like, that
    
    
      one in
    
    
      Stuart's book about,
    
    
      you know, the -
    
    
      Alarm in the dog?
    
    
      U- Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Or the earthquake and the alarm.
    
    
      
    
    
      Sorry. Yeah, I'm confusing  two.  
    
    
      Yeah, there's a dog one, too, but that's in Java Bayes, isn't it?
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Maybe.
    
    
      But there's something about
    
    
      bowel problems or something with the dog.
    
    
       
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      And we have all the
    
    
      
    
    
      top ones,
    
    
      all the ones to which  no  arrows are pointing. 
    
    
      What we're missing are the -
    
    
      these, where arrows are pointing, where we're combining
    
    
      top ones.
    
    
      So, we have to come up with values for this, and
    
    
      this, this, this, and so forth. 
    
    
      And maybe
    
    
      just fiddle around with it a little bit more. 
    
    
      And, um.
    
    
      And then it's just, uh,
    
    
      edges,
    
    
      many of
    
    
      edges. 
    
    
      And, um, we  won't   meet next Monday.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Cuz of Memorial Day?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      We'll meet next Tuesday, I guess.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      When's Jerry leaving for -
    
    
      Italia? 
    
    
      On - on  Friday.  
    
    
      Which Friday?
    
    
      This -  this  Friday.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Oh.  This  Friday?
    
    
      Ugh. 
    
    
       This  Friday.
    
    
      As in, four days?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Or, three days?
    
    
      Is he - How long is he gone for?
    
    
      Two weeks.
    
    
      Italy, huh? 
    
    
      What's, uh - what's there?
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, it's a country.
    
    
      Buildings.
    
    
      People.
    
    
      But it's not a conference or anything. He's just visiting.
    
    
      Pasta.
    
    
      Hmm?
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Just visiting.
    
    
      Vacation.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      It's a pretty nice place,
    
    
      
    
    
      in my brief, uh, encounter with it.
    
    
      Do you guys - Oh, yeah. So.  Part  of what we actually  want  to do is sort of schedule out what we want to  surprise  him with when - when he comes  back. 
    
    
      Um, so -
    
    
      Oh, I think we should disappoint him.
    
    
      Yeah? You - or have a finished  construction   parser and a working belief-net, and uh -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       That  wouldn't be  disappointing.   
    
    
      I think w- we should do absolutely no work
    
    
      
    
    
      for the two weeks that he's gone.
    
    
      Well, that's actually what  I  had planned,  personally.  I had - I - I had sort of scheduled out in my mind that  you  guys do a  lot  of work, and  I  do  nothing. 
    
    
      
    
    
      And then, I sort of -
    
    
      Oh, yeah, that sounds good, too.
    
    
      sort of bask in - in your glory.
    
    
      
    
    
      But, uh, i- do you guys have any vacation plans, because I  myself  am going to be,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      gone, but
    
    
      this is actually  not   really important. Just this  weekend  we're going camping.
    
    
      Yeah, I'm wanna be this - gone this weekend, too. 
    
    
      Ah. 
    
    
      But we're  all  going to be here on  Tuesday  again?
    
    
      Looks like it?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K, then. Let's meet - meet again next Tuesday.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      finish up this Bayes-net.
    
    
      And once we have  finished  it,
    
    
      I guess we can,
    
    
      um -
    
    
      and that's going to be more just you and  me, 
    
    
      because Bhaskara is doing probabilistic,
    
    
      recursive,
    
    
      structured,
    
    
      object-oriented,
    
    
      
    
    
      uh,
    
    
      Killing machines! 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       reasoning  machines.
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      And, um -
    
    
      Killing, reasoning. What's the difference?
    
    
      Wait. So you're saying, next Tuesday, is it the whole group meeting, or just
    
    
      Uh.
    
    
      us three working on it, or - or - ? 
    
    
      The whole group.
    
    
      And we present our results,
    
    
      our  final, 
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
       definite  -
    
    
      So, when you were saying we  need to do a re-run
    
    
       
    
    
      of, like -
    
    
       
    
    
      h- What?
    
    
      What - Like, just working out the rest of the - 
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah. We should do this th- the upcoming days.
    
    
       This  week?
    
    
      So,  this  week, yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      When you say, "the whole group", you mean 
    
    
      the four of us, and Keith?
    
    
      
    
    
      And,  Ami  might. 
    
    
      Ami might be here, and it's possible that Nancy'll be here?
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      So,
    
    
      yeah.
    
    
      Because, th- you know,
    
    
      once we have the belief-net done -
    
    
      You're just gonna have to
    
    
      explain it to me, then, on Tuesday, how it's all gonna work out.
    
    
       You  know.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       We  will.
    
    
      O_K. Because then, once we have it sort of up and running, then we can  start   you know,
    
    
      defining the interfaces and then feed stuff into it and get stuff out of it, and then
    
    
      hook it up to some
    
    
      fake construction
    
    
      parser and -
    
    
      That you will have in about
    
    
      nine months or so. Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      The first bad version'll be done in nine months.
    
    
      Yeah, I can worry about the ontology interface and you can - Keith can worry about the discourse. I mean, this is pretty - Um, I mean, I - I - I hope everybody uh  knows  that
    
    
      these are just going to be uh  dummy  values, right?
    
    
      Which - 
    
    
      where the -
    
    
      Which ones?
    
    
      S- so - so if the  endpoint  - if the  Go-there  is Yes and No, then Go-there- discourse  will just be fifty-fifty.
    
    
      Right?
    
    
      Um, what do you mean?  If  the Go-there says No, then the Go-there is -
    
    
      I don't get it.
    
    
      I don't u- understand.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Like, the Go-there depends on all those four things.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      But, what are the values of the Go-there- discourse? 
    
    
      Well, it depends on the situation. If the discourse is  strongly  indicating that -
    
    
      Yeah, but, uh, we  have  no discourse input.
    
    
      Oh,  I  see. The d- See, uh, specifically in our situation, D_ and O_ are gonna be, uh - Yeah. Sure. So, whatever.
    
    
      So, so far we have -
    
    
      Is that what the  Keith  node is?
    
    
       
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      O_K. And you're taking it out?  for now? Or - ? 
    
    
      Well, this is
    
    
      D_ -
    
    
      O_K, this, I can - I can get it in here.
    
    
      All the  D_ 's are -
    
    
      I can get it in here, so th- We have the, uh,
    
    
      um,
    
    
      
    
    
       
    
    
       sk-  let's - let's call it "Keith-Johno
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      node".
    
    
      Johno? 
    
    
      There is
    
    
      an H_ 
    
    
      somewhere  printed .
    
    
       There  you go.
    
    
      Yeah. People have the same problem with my name.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Oops.  
    
    
      
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      
    
    
      Does th- th- does the H_ go b-  before  the A_ or  after  the A_? 
    
    
       Oh, in  my  name?  Before  the A_.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K,  good.  
    
    
      Cuz you kn- When you said people have the same  problem,  I thought - Cuz  my  H_ goes  after  the uh e- e- e- the v-
    
    
      People have the inverse problem with my name.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      I always have to  check, 
    
    
      every time y- I send you an email, 
    
    
      a past email of  yours,   to make sure I'm spelling your name correctly.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      That's good.
    
    
      I  worry  about you.
    
    
      
    
    
      I appreciate that.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      But, when you  abbreviate  yourself as the   "Basman"  , you don't use  any  H_'s.
    
    
      
    
    
      "Basman"?  Yeah, it's because of the chessplayer named Michael Basman, who is my hero.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
       You're  a  geek. 
    
    
      
    
    
       It's  O_ K.  I- 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      How do you pronou-
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      How do you pronounce  your  name?
    
    
       Eva.  
    
    
      Eva? 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Not  Eva?  
    
    
      What if I were - What if I were to call you  Eva?  
    
    
      I'd  probably  still respond to it.
    
    
       
    
    
      I've had people call me  Eva,   but I don't know.
    
    
      No, not just  Eva,    Eva.   Like if I u-
    
    
      
    
    
      take the  V_  and s- pronounce it like it was a  German   V_ ?
    
    
      Which is F_.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Um, no  idea  then.
    
    
      Voiced.
    
    
      What?
    
    
      It sounds like an F_. There's also an F_ in German, which is why I -
    
    
      I -
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Well, it's just the difference between voiced and unvoiced.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      As  long  as that's O_ K.  I mean, I might slip out and say it accidentally. That's all I'm saying.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      That's  fine.  
    
    
      Yeah. It doesn't matter what those nodes are, anyway, because we'll just make the weights "zero" for now.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      We'll make them zero for now,
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      because it - who - who knows what they come up with,
    
    
      what's gonna come in there.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And, um,
    
    
      then
    
    
      should we start on Thursday?
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And not meet tomorrow?
    
    
      Sure.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      I'll send an email,
    
    
      make a time suggestion.
    
    
      Wait, maybe it's O_K, so that -
    
    
      that - that we can - that we have one node per construction.
    
    
      Cuz even in  people,  like, they don't know what you're  talking  about if you're using some sort of strange  construction. 
    
    
      Yeah, they would still c- sort of get the closest, best fit.
    
    
      Well, yeah, but I mean, the - uh, I mean, that's what the construction parser would do. Uh, I mean, if you said something completely arbitrary, it would f- find the
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      closest construction, right? But if you said something that was completel- er - h- theoretically the construction parser would do that -
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      But if you said something for which there was no construction whatsoever,
    
    
      n- people wouldn't have any idea what you were talking about.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Like "Bus dog fried egg." I mean.
    
    
      You know.
    
    
      Or, if  even  something Chinese, for example.
    
    
      
    
    
      Or, something in Mandarin, yeah.
    
    
      Or Cantonese, as the case may be.
    
    
      What do you think about  that,  Bhaskara?
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean -
    
    
      Well -
    
    
      But how many constructions do - could we possibly have 
    
    
      nodes for?
    
    
      In  this  system, or in r-
    
    
      No,  we.  Like, when people do this kind of thing.
    
    
      Oh, when p- How many constructions do  people  have?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I have not  the slightest idea. 
    
    
      Is it considered to be like in - are they considered to be like very, uh, sort of s- abstract things?
    
    
      Every noun is a construction.
    
    
      O_K, so it's like in the  thousands.
    
    
      The - Yeah. 
    
    
      Any - any form- meaning  pair, to my understanding, is a construction.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      And form u- starts at the level of noun - Or actually, maybe even  sounds.  Yeah.
    
    
       Phoneme.  Yep.
    
    
      And goes upwards
    
    
      until you get
    
    
      the  ditransitive  construction.
    
    
      And then, of course, the c- I guess, maybe there can be the -
    
    
      S-
    
    
      Can there be combinations of the dit-
    
    
      Discourse-level 
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      constructions.
    
    
      The "giving a speech" construction,
    
    
      Rhetorical constructions. Yeah.
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
       
    
    
       
    
    
      But, I mean,
    
    
      you know, you can  probably  count -
    
    
      count the ways.
    
    
      I mean.
    
    
      It's probab- Yeah, I would s- definitely say it's finite.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      And at least in compilers, that's all that really matters, as long as your analysis is finite.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      How's that?  How it can be finite, again?
    
    
      
    
    
      Nah, I can't think of a way it would be  infinite. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, you can come up with  new  constructions.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      If the - if your - if your brain was totally non-deterministic,
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      then perhaps there's a way to get, uh,
    
    
      infin- an infinite number of constructions that you'd have to worry about.
    
    
      But, I mean, in the  practical sense, it's impossible.
    
    
      Right. Cuz if we have a fixed number of neurons - ? 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So the best-case scenario would be the number of constructions - or, the  worst-case  scenario is the number of constructions equals the number of neurons.
    
    
      Well, two to the power of the number of neurons.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      But  still 
    
    
       finite. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      No, wait. Not  necessarily,  is it?
    
    
      We can end the  meeting. I just -
    
    
       Can't you use different var- different levels of activation?
    
    
      across, uh -
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      lots of different neurons, to specify different values?
    
    
       
    
    
      Um, yeah, but there's, like, a certain level of -
    
    
       
    
    
      There's a bandwidth issue, right? Yeah.
    
    
      Bandw- Yeah, so you can't do better than something.
    
    
      Turn off the mikes. Otherwise it gets really tough for the tr- 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      

  

  


  

    
      If you're popular.
    
    
      One two three four five six  - I'm on seven.
    
    
      We're on.
    
    
      It's probably the P_Z_Ms. 
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      So, I think we pre-crashed, so I think we're O_K.
    
    
      Pre-crashed.
    
    
      So it should be a really short meeting, I hope.
    
    
      Uh, agenda items, number one, I wanna talk - since we were just discussing that - is microphone issues. What the heck are we gonna do about microphones?
    
    
      So uh I got passed on that the E_D_U group doesn't like the
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      uh, Crown mikes.  I  do. I l- I think - I find them very comfortable. Uh, but it seems to depend on your head shape.
    
    
      Who does? 
    
    
      I do.
    
    
      Yeah, I do too.
    
    
      So you guys need to start going to the E_D_U meetings.
    
    
      I see.
    
    
      Yeah right.
    
    
      They don't work for me very well. I much prefer these.
    
    
      That's right.
    
    
      Yep. Um,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Me too.
    
    
      So do I.
    
    
      I  prefer  these, but I don't mind using those.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Th- those are intimidating.
    
    
      So apparently they - they like
    
    
      It has one good effect, that people are trying to get there early because the people who get there early get to pick the mike.
    
    
      
    
    
       O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      Interesting.
    
    
      People who show up late have to use  these.  So,
    
    
      um, we should probably get different mikes. So the question is, the easiest thing to do is certainly to just get two more, um,
    
    
       Sony  mikes.
    
    
      Just two more of  those,  um. And that - that's easy and that will certainly work.
    
    
      The other option is to try yet another mike.
    
    
      
    
    
      Find one we like and potentially get  six,  all the  same. 
    
    
      I have a question about this.
    
    
      Are the auditory quality - Is it, uh, much different between this kind and the - the fancy ones?
    
    
      Um,  these  are better, if they're worn correctly.
    
    
      They are.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Those are better than the Sonys?
    
    
      Have you -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, definitely.
    
    
      Have you  listened  to - to  them?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So, I mean, they're  not  a  lot  better, but they  are  a  little  better.
    
    
      Are they more directional, the microphones, as far as -
    
    
      Um, they're more directional, a little better error - uh, noise cancellation, and also you can really get it right in front of your mouth, like this, whereas that one, to avoid breath noise, you really have to put it at - to the side.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So you seem to get better signal with this one.
    
    
      The other thing is, is it just a few people who don't like them in the E_D_U group? Cuz -
    
    
      I don't know, but - you know, in - in sort of random polling 
    
    
      L- Liz - Liz said something that leaves me believing that  nobody  likes them.
    
    
      They are ver-
    
    
      Gosh, cuz I  much  prefer them, I think they're a whole lot, multiple levels, better.
    
    
      It seems a shame t- to discard -  discard  them if - if they're better auditory quality and there're only a few people who dis- who object.
    
    
      I mean, so s-
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Yeah, that's why I was saying if we could just unplug them and plug them in.
    
    
      Well, I mean, that's the other option, is that we could switch the form so it's more obvious the distinction between channel and mike, um, and then get
    
    
      
    
    
      You know, pretty -
    
    
      
    
    
      duplicates. I mean, there's no problem with that. It's just - what -
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Should we get just more  Sony  ones? I  hate  the  Sony  ones.
    
    
      Which ones are those?
    
    
      b- the one you're wearing. Because it - it pinches -
    
    
      The one I'm wearing? Oh.
    
    
      Those.
    
    
      pinches the  temples  too much.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
       And -
    
    
      I mean, so, if you  wear  it sort of around the  back,  it's not  too  bad.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I hate it because it's hard to adjust the  microphone.  I mean, I spend all this time fumbling around with it and  still  not
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      But I -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      reasonable, yeah.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      So, I mean, we could try another mike.
    
    
      But then we have the wiring issue, and -   So I - I don't know  what  to do. What do - what do people think?
    
    
      But the problem is again the - the plug, or - ? 
    
    
      Wh-
    
    
      The plug is proprietary. So that's why I was saying getting more  Sony  ones is trivial, because we can just go out and buy them. Any other ones we have to buy them in pigtail versions and get them wired.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K, n- now may- maybe I just don't know this but, um, are the only two possibilities from  Sony  the two that we've  tried?  Or is there another -
    
    
      Yes.
    
    
      So, the only possibilities from Sony are  that  one and the lapel mike.
    
    
      I see. O_K.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Oh, I see.
    
    
      So this isn't Sony. This is Crown. The one we're wearing.
    
    
      Isn't that something. O_K.
    
    
      And so we had these wired for us.
    
    
      Oh. I see. O_K.
    
    
      Well, it s- It seems like right  now  if - if u- what they're complaining are  those,  if we just got two more of  these  - 
    
    
      And so -
    
    
      Huh, I remember that now.
    
    
      I think that's probably the right first step is just get two more immediately, and have them available.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And then they can just unplug those from the -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      And just make sure that you write down "Crown" or "Sony" on the mike number, which I'll change to mike type, or something like that.
    
    
      transmitter.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      It might be good to double check at the end of the meeting too, cuz that would be an easy place for, uh, an error in the data.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      For it to be forgotten.
    
    
      Well, it'll be me -
    
    
      It'll be whoever's setting up the meeting, who fills out the key file, so
    
    
      O_K, it's just - I'm just thinking that if - it'd be - yeah, but I know - but I mean to have the  user  fill it out wouldn't be as reliable as have the - 
    
    
      It has the same potential for error as everything else.
    
    
      No, no, we definitely would  not  have the user fill it out. It would be me, Chuck, or Liz, depending on which meeting it is.
    
    
      Good, O_K.
    
    
      Perfect.
    
    
      Perfect, O_K.
    
    
      O_K, so we'll de- definitely go ahead and do that.
    
    
      How much is it just to buy the mike?
    
    
      Couple hundred.
    
    
      Really.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Is that more or less than you thought?
    
    
      It depends on how good the mike is.
    
    
      Oh that's  way  more than I thought. I - yeah.
    
    
      Oh, O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      For one of  these? 
    
    
      Well the  Crown  ones were like two-fifty. I think  those  are like one-ninety.
    
    
      God.
    
    
      Oops.  
    
    
      Wow!
    
    
      But.
    
    
      Is there any educational discount? 
    
    
      Yeah right. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      No. 
    
    
      Student discount.
    
    
      Yeah, good mikes are expensive. So.
    
    
      And when I was at Computer Motion we used Shure, the S_M-ten-A's, and I  think  they were only like eighty  bucks  or something.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Yeah, eighty or ninety for the Shures. So.
    
    
      Yeah. But they were - they seemed pretty good.
    
    
      I mean, the  Sony  ones are expensive because they're proprietary, so they can charge whatever they want. These are expensive because they're quite high quality. So.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      Right, right.
    
    
      So we should buzz  that out if we send the data to Sony.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Ah, come on.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      We should keep a list of things we're gonna bleep out and the conditions under which - 
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, I'm just joking.
    
    
      So, you do  not  have to bleep that out. I don't mind if Sony knows my opinion. So.
    
    
      
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Also, we're pro- I wanna double check with Morgan, he  did  say yes  before  I went to Japan on buying another wireless system so that we can go all wireless, instead of the mix of wired and wireless. And I think that's the right thing to do.
    
    
      So then all those red channels there would become wireless ones?
    
    
      And I'm -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Cool.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
       Uh-huh. 
    
    
      Four more wireless.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      And also I'm gonna re-  probably  replace the Andrea mike with a Shure, but I'll test it, uh, sometime today or tomorrow to make sure the Shure one really works, cuz I have an extra Shure in my office.
    
    
      The Andrea mike?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, apparently it's had some problems.
    
    
      That's causing problems, yeah.
    
    
      Which one is the Andrea mike?
    
    
      It was over here sometimes.
    
    
      A wired one?
    
    
      The - yeah a wired one.
    
    
      Yeah. It's uh -
    
    
      Well, if you're gonna go to all wireless,
    
    
      Oh, you mean in the meantime.
    
    
      This one.
    
    
      In the meantime, right, because uh -
    
    
      Ah, I see.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      it'll - it'll probably take a couple weeks to get it delivered from Sony anyway.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      I haven't - In the meetings that I recorded s-
    
    
      So -
    
    
      It's always been at most six people, so I've never had to -
    
    
      Oh really? Yeah.
    
    
      Recently I haven't had to used any of the wired ones at all.
    
    
      I guess cuz everyone's been out of town. Probably over the summer it'll be the same cuz it tends to be less,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      fewer people.
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      File -
    
    
      Uh, done with microphone issues, I think?
    
    
      
    
    
      Should we close the door?
    
    
      If you want.
    
    
      Oh, I'm thinking - I don't know about the acoustics. That's - that's all I was wondering about.
    
    
      And this way we can get a door-slam in the uh - in the transcript file.
    
    
      Yeah. 
    
    
      Yeah that's right, we gotta get the obligatory door-slam. 
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh well. No- not quite a slam.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      There's some knocks.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Get a special phone for that.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Uh, the door-slam phone?
    
    
      I guess, right, the door-slam phone. 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      You have a special phone?
    
    
      No, we could add one.
    
    
      Oh, we could add one, yeah.
    
    
      And then we could have the  phone  phone,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
       That's an idea.
    
    
      for - for when the phone rings.
    
    
      
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      Uh, file reorganization.
    
    
      This is something we were talking about  before  I left and saying we should probably wait until  after  I'm  back,  and now I'm back, so, we should do that at some point. So we should
    
    
      get ourselves a list of everything we wanna do to reorganize the file structure and anything else.
    
    
       
    
    
      Can I - can I just mention something?
    
    
      Sure.
    
    
      Um, uh, I think the file regards reorganization. Also, um, another issue there is disk space probably, right? Um, so
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      I know that the files that you've been cutting up for us
    
    
      f- for the recognition experiments, uh, one way - one really
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      brain -
    
    
      uh, brain-dead way of - of - of
    
    
      not causing any trouble, but saving disk space is to, uh, use the s- the
    
    
      Sphere, the NIST, uh, W_encode program.
    
    
      to - to encode, you know, to compress them.
    
    
      Shorten. Is that the same as shorten?
    
    
      Uh, yeah, but it does it s- it happens so that the program that reads the waveforms does the unshortening transparently.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Well, O_K, you mean it's built into the S_R_I, because we have the same thing with shorten in the  sound  tools.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Y- uh, I  guess,  but it
    
    
      um,
    
    
      So it's just a question of - of what decompression is built into your tools.
    
    
      Well, it's -
    
    
       Well like - Hhh. 
    
    
      It's actually built into the Sphere library that NIST delivers, so - Right.
    
    
      Oh really? I didn't know that.
    
    
      And actually, s- the sound tools  don't  understand that.
    
    
      For the -
    
    
      At least Feacalc doesn't.
    
    
      At least  Feacalc  doesn't. So.
    
    
      Well, that's not a sound tool, right.
    
    
      But since - since these files are made to be used with the S_R_I recognizer,
    
    
      uh and the S_R_I front-end uses the Sphere library which in turn does this
    
    
      transparently
    
    
      um,
    
    
      uh, that will be a quick and -
    
    
      quick and easy way to just, uh, get you know, uh, be able to use more -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      The other thing I could do to relieve some of the pressure um is just move everything
    
    
      to my eighteen gig  disk,  which is local.
    
    
      But that's gonna be only  temporary.  
    
    
      Well,
    
    
      I mean, I don't know -
    
    
      I mean, you should do that too,
    
    
      probably, but - but as you do that you can also just run the -
    
    
      Yeah, it is kind of a temporary solution.
    
    
      To shorten everything.
    
    
      well, actually, the - th- what you do is you run -
    
    
      Oh, now I have another use for the - 
    
    
      The way I recently used it, and there might be better ways - So the program's called W_encode.
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      And I think the type, y- you say um
    
    
      I think dash T_ and then there are different -
    
    
      different encoding methods, but if you wanna use the shorten one, you say d- "minus T_ shorten",
    
    
      and then the old
    
    
      uh wavefile and the  new 
    
    
      wavefile, and then - Oops!  And then I check, you know, if this works, so, you can use the -
    
    
      the shell "AND" operator or something.
    
    
      Then I just move the
    
    
      new wavefile to the,
    
    
      you know, to the old
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      wavefile, and then you have replaced the old one with one that behaves identically as long as your programs that use it know how to
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      decode it on the fly.
    
    
      And that -
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      that just saved my butt because I actually was running - On a different experiment, I had
    
    
      segmented -
    
    
      I was processing the whole Switchboard-two corpus, which is two hundred eighty hours of speech,
    
    
      and I was noticing, as I was
    
    
      almost finishing the processing, that I was running out of disk space. 
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      And - and so
    
    
      I uh had this flash of inspiration of just uh the same - the same disk had the segmented waveforms on them, so I -
    
    
      
    
    
      Shortening everything on the fly. 
    
    
      while this other thing was still going  on,  I was run- I was running this -  this  thing. 
    
    
      You had another process running that was shortening it. Yep.
    
    
      
    
    
      Wow, wow!
    
    
      And low and behold I gained three g- three gig of space and um, you know -  
    
    
      Wow!
    
    
      
    
    
      Did you have to re-nice one of the processes to make sure that "shorten"?
    
    
      No, no.  Actually it was fast enough. This is very fast. This - this really runs quickly. And that's -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Wow.
    
    
      That must have been suspenseful. 
    
    
       Watching the disk meter.
    
    
      That was  very   suspenseful.  That was - that was the most excitement I had all weekend. Uh, uh boy, it uh  came out just fine. So. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      To be O_K. 
    
    
      You know what would be a -
    
    
      u- I don't know if this would mess other things up, but -
    
    
      It seems like kind of a pain to have all these split up files around. What would be easier would be like pointers.
    
    
      The list, yep.
    
    
      You know, lists like "original wavefile, start, end".
    
    
      Start end.
    
    
      This is -
    
    
      Yep, the way  Feacalc   - calc does it.
    
    
      Right, the - the only reason we do this is because the - the S_R_I front-end doesn't have a way to - to um 
    
    
      go into a l- a longer file with indices.
    
    
      Um, so I - I suppose
    
    
      And segment on the fly. 
    
    
      someone could try to put a hack like that into the - 
    
    
      It would be easy.
    
    
      It wouldn't be hard at all. Someone just needs to d- sit down and do it who has some time.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      But there's also some - I guess -
    
    
      And that way we wouldn't have multiple versions floating around. About the only difficulty with that is if it's  compressed. 
    
    
      Then you really  do  have to decompress it  first. 
    
    
      That's true.
    
    
      Right? Because the pointers are -
    
    
      Y- you don't know how much it's comp-
    
    
      Well, is there - is there - is there a NIST routine which
    
    
      It doesn't compress it by a fixed amount.
    
    
      Exactly. Right right right right right.
    
    
      can seek
    
    
      in a compressed file but with uncompressed indices?
    
    
      I don't think so.
    
    
      And  yeah I mean, that - it -
    
    
      No, no. I mean, if you -
    
    
      Th- the - the - the -
    
    
      If you can operate on the full -
    
    
      If you  don't  have to  segment  it, then there would be less of a reason to do the  compression,  because you don't have that wasted -
    
    
      
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      that extra  copy.  So.
    
    
      Right we - I mean the original  Switchboard  files are not compressed, right? So we could leave those as they  are. 
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Well, I mean, it just depends on how much disk space is a problem. I mean the - what you could do is decompress it to a temporary place and then operate on it and then delete it.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      But.
    
    
      I mean, the segmentation also  saves  you space in the sense that you cut out all the  nonspeech  regions.
    
    
      Just silences, yeah.
    
    
      And if you have, you know, twenty channels and only five speakers, then it's -
    
    
      That's true.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Well, assuming you'd - Yeah. Assuming that you then off-load the original
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Switchboard files.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Well, it seems like just shortening them is a good short-term solution so we don't have to do any coding.
    
    
      Yeah, yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      But I think - kind of - We've had - There was a big disk crash when you were gone and -
    
    
      So.
    
    
      No, it was - I was still here. It was the day I left. 
    
    
      Oh was that the day you left?
    
    
      
    
    
      That's suspicious.
    
    
      
    
    
      He did it on purpose.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      Leave to Japan the day the disk crashes.
    
    
      No if I - if I had done it on purpose I would have timed it right  after  I left. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      But, um - Yeah so, Chuck helped me out in, uh, r-
    
    
      regenerating all the cha- the different channel files for like a few meetings - for like six meetings. So I think they're split up even further. It's kind of even more disorganized now since
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      
    
    
      we moved some of the meetings to different directories.
    
    
      They're on a different disk even, right?
    
    
      Are they?
    
    
      I think - you - didn't you expand them to X_E on Abbott?
    
    
      X_F.
    
    
      No, you - the ones that
    
    
      Oh, different ones?
    
    
      You - the ones that you put them on when you put them on X_E.
    
    
      I don't remember where I put them now.
    
    
      I think you put them on X_E. So.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Well what we - what we found out was that um the disk that crashed
    
    
      was - it - w- with a - with a meta disk allocation, you had both c- t- transcripts and the shortened files and the expanded files were all on X_E - were on the same - sorry, different partitions of the same physical disk.
    
    
      Physical disk.
    
    
      Mmm.
    
    
      And it's conceivable I mean, I - I don't - I mean, so um, I was told that it's  possible  that that might have, uh, caused additional wear on it. Maybe caused it to - to go bad sooner.
    
    
      Well, I think there was something else going on, because uh Dave Johnson said that D_D was getting accessed  frequently.  And it  shouldn't  be.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Oh. Uh-huh.
    
    
      Right? That data never gets touched, because we write it once and then we never touch it again.
    
    
      Well, why not?
    
    
      Oh sure it does.
    
    
      Yeah, after each meeting we copy the data to -
    
    
      Except that -
    
    
      Well, I mean, so the wavefiles, or - or anything at all, because the transcripts are there as well.
    
    
      The wave files.
    
    
      I mean, he was saying gigabytes.
    
    
      Oh, gigabytes. I see.
    
    
      And so, it has to be the wave files.
    
    
      Yeah, there  was  something weird about that.
    
    
      Yeah, that's right.
    
    
      Yeah, so I asked Dave about it and he hasn't looked into it yet, but we should definitely double check on it.
    
    
      Yeah like - like the same
    
    
      meeting - shortened, files that we pull off of Popcorn when we're done doing the recording,
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      looked,
    
    
      to the  backup  software, as if they had been written,
    
    
      you know, every single  night, 
    
    
      Every night.
    
    
      Is that right.
    
    
      i- for - f- you know, a week in a  row,  which is really weird.
    
    
      That's  very  strange. I didn't realize that. O_K.
    
    
      Wow.
    
    
      So at any rate, so for file reorganization we need to  first  decide what we're gonna do and then when we're gonna do it.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      So I'm not sure who isn't involved with that. I mean, certainly me, Chuck and Jane. Anyone else  care?
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      And I - and I'd like, in terms of the conventions, to also, uh, you know, s- send a bit to Dan Ellis to see if it's - if there's any - get his input on it. I don't think - I don't think that'll be - Yeah.
    
    
      No.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      
    
    
      So, maybe we should do that
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
       not  during this meeting but s- another time, and just get a list of everything we're gonna do.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Maybe n- next week if we  could.  I'm trying to finish up some stuff.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Yeah sure. I'd like to -
    
    
      So just update all the naming conventions and
    
    
      put all the files where they really belong, on one disk,
    
    
      That sounds like a good idea.
    
    
      and then leave - leave everything in place until the back-up - until the next full back-up and then delete the old ones.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      O_K, now - and you're just - you're not talking about the s- the X_ disks - the X_ uh partitions, just the backed up space, or - ? 
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Well,  both  need to be reorganized.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      So um,
    
    
      
    
    
      various paths, th- I mean this is why we have to do it in a synchronized way, because um
    
    
      
    
    
      I think we should also at the same time try to, uh, convert over to your new naming conventions.
    
    
      Yes,
    
    
      exactly. That too.
    
    
      That'd be good.
    
    
      So that's what I was saying. We need to get a list of all that stuff that we wanna do.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      And so
    
    
      I didn't really get any responses from the naming conventions that I sent out, so I assume that's alright with everyone.
    
    
      I actually haven't looked at it yet. I haven't had a chance, so. 
    
    
      No.
    
    
      Hmm. 
    
    
      I haven't either. Sorry. 
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      
    
    
       And -
    
    
      I will by next  week,  though. 
    
    
      Uh, I don't know about the naming, I mean,
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Then I should have made that as an agenda item.
    
    
      Th- so these names that we've been using so far are with uh
    
    
      uh
    
    
      uh
    
    
      I wouldn't just wanna change them
    
    
      you know, without some advance notice.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      I mean, th- that's all these  segment  names that we- we've been using. I would rather not mess with them
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, I'm -
    
    
      until we have some closure on some of the things we are currently
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      dealing with, so -
    
    
      Well, I mean, how  you  choose to do it - the naming is up to you.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Well,
    
    
      So.
    
    
      You're talking about different files.
    
    
      I mean, it should probably be -  eventually  should probably be consistent with what you're doing but,
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      yeah, I kind of agree with Andreas, like I'm a little bit -
    
    
      I mean, these -
    
    
      I  looked  at the naming conventions and they look fine to me, but at the same time it was just like you know to rename everything would be -
    
    
      Well, if we -
    
    
      If  we  change things, it won't really affect what  you're  doing, will it?
    
    
      This -
    
    
      No but I think just to be consistent we should also, I mean, have the same conventions, just in case you want -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Yeah. So you - but you can switch that any time you want, right?
    
    
      Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's only gonna affect my work. So.
    
    
      Yeah, it's not gonna -
    
    
      I mean, if we -
    
    
      I assume you're not gonna go, like, into, you know,  my  directories and change  my  file names. So. Yeah. 
    
    
       Everybody will use it.  Fine slash U_ slash star. 
    
    
      Right. 
    
    
      I - Actually I was gonna do a global search-replace on all entries at -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      at ICSI to change M_R to M_R_M at all places at ICSI. 
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah, that'd be great.
    
    
      
    
    
      Really enjoy that.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      With no - with no advance warning.
    
    
      Y- you -
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, maybe I shouldn't say that on re- record.
    
    
      
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      There was a
    
    
      typo in some of the contracts that Morgan got that someone,
    
    
      
    
    
      one of our sponsors, did a global sear- search and replace for - between "sponsor" and  their  name.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
       Oh no, oh no.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      And so, it - it was saying, uh -
    
    
      Well, anyway, I won't -
    
    
      Yeah, one - one can imagine that that might be problematic. 
    
    
      I'm not sure whether that's right.
    
    
      
    
    
      Yeah, one can imagine the problems that that would  engender.
    
    
      
    
    
      But this - this name change affects a subset, doesn't need to reflect everything, yeah.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      
    
    
      Thilo, you had - you wanted to talk about the -
    
    
      Yeah, I had one - one short point. I have just installed a Transcriber version on one of our N_T machines so it's available under Windows now.
    
    
      Oh great. Actually someone - I just got an email this week from someone as-
    
    
      Isn't that great?
    
    
      Yeah I re- responded to sh- I have already responded to him. I - I don't know what - what - what he - what the problem was. It was really straightforward, really easy.
    
    
      To Anant?
    
    
      And this is not - Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Oh, I'm sorry, I - I just - So, who did you talk to?
    
    
      There was some - some guy from S_R_I who wanted to - to install - Yeah.
    
    
      Anant?
    
    
      Anant Venkataraman? O_K.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      And he sent an email that he couldn't - couldn't install it and I - I just described him, well, what I did and it was really straightforward, so.   
    
    
      Yeah, O_K. Great.
    
    
      Yeah, O_K.
    
    
      Great. Great. Thanks. Thanks.
    
    
      And this is not just the Transcriber, this is the Channeltrans, right?
    
    
      Yeah, it's the Channeltrans, so the -
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Yeah, excellent.
    
    
      the
    
    
      Cool.
    
    
      things that Dave Gelbart -
    
    
      Excellent.
    
    
      So you should probably talk to a Sys Admin and get it put in some central place.
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      So that it'll work on all the N_T machines.
    
    
      
    
    
      Well, I mean, as it stands, I - I guess - yeah I see what you mean. It'll - it'll be on the - on the UNIX side but accessible through the H_drive. Yeah.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      I've -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      O_K. Yeah. I could do that.
    
    
      So I assume Tcl-T_K wasn't already on the machine, so you had to install it. Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      I had i- to install it, yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      Huh. Yeah.
    
    
      Uh
    
    
      So Andreas, would it be appropriate to ask how the experiments are going?
    
    
      Uh -
    
    
      Oh, well, yeah I - I - I actually wasn't sure whether this is the right meeting for it, because it has uh very little to do with - with  meeting  recordings, but
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      
    
    
        you know, I did uh run 
    
    
      um some recognition experiments with ICSI  front-end. 
    
    
      Um
    
    
      Uh, and - and you know, this is the j- joint work with Chuck, and uh,
    
    
      um.
    
    
      So, first,
    
    
      uh, you know, we had -
    
    
      we figured out sometime last week how to
    
    
      um -
    
    
      and - and Chuck wrote this really nice little
    
    
      script - Perl script that
    
    
      takes a uh waveform, runs the feature calculation
    
    
      and then dumps it out into the - into um
    
    
      a f- c- so-called
    
    
      uh cepstra file, which is what the S_R_I system uses to read features. It's essentially uh
    
    
      uh NIST headered
    
    
      uh waveform. You know, it looks like a waveform except instead of samples you have  feature  vectors following the header.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      And um that's all done
    
    
      um
    
    
      by the script, and it works great. And
    
    
      uh I first trained up two
    
    
      systems, because it's gender-dep- you know, the S_R_I system is gender-dependent so to be comparable, I trained uh um on a sh- on a so-called short training set
    
    
      um
    
    
      a male system and a female system,
    
    
      and
    
    
      uh also for debugging purposes, and for the heck of it, I trained um -
    
    
      trained uh on the same training set uh a standard system with the  S_R_I  front-end from  scratch, 
    
    
      um, and compared the two -
    
    
      So, w- what features did you use?
    
    
      Well, we used, uh, twelve P_L_P uh, uh -
    
    
      So not RASTA, just P_L_P.
    
    
      Just P_L_P.
    
    
      Just P_L_P and actually that - uh, one of the questions I had was what the RASTA would possibly buy us. But um, we'll
    
    
      talk about that later. So, the uh - so the baseline system - w- the S_R_I system was - uh used - uh also uh uh used t- twelve uh mel - uh mel cepstra
    
    
      um  based on a twenty-four filter bank
    
    
      um analysis.
    
    
      Um
    
    
      I do  not 
    
    
      know what - So the f- the bandwidth of the um
    
    
       S_R_I  front-end is from hundreds hertz to th- th- thirty-se- thirty-seven fifty or something like that.
    
    
      Thirty-seven fifty.
    
    
      And I do not know what the um
    
    
      ICSI um
    
    
      front-end would do. I mean, what the bandwidth is.
    
    
      Um,
    
    
      
    
    
      but the results are such that uh, let's see -
    
    
      There's one other slight difference, right? Or two -  two  differences.
    
    
      Oh yeah. So the S_R_I system also does um
    
    
      vocal tract length normalization and we couldn't figure out how to do that yet with the ICSI features. So that's one difference. And the other difference is that
    
    
      in the, uh -
    
    
      
    
    
      in the S_R_I system,
    
    
      the uh th- the first - the C_zero, the energy uh feature is normalized slightly differently from the rest. And what they do is
    
    
      Huh.
    
    
      they d- they subtract the maximum -
    
    
      For each waveform segment
    
    
      they subtract the maximum of - of th- over that waveform segment from
    
    
      from the values of - for that waveform.
    
    
      Which is a kind of automatic gain control, that is localized -
    
    
      Do they subtract the max from each i- one or do they subtract each one from the max?
    
    
       Who cares?
    
    
      They subtract -
    
    
      
    
    
      Doesn't matter?
    
    
      No, just would be a sign change.
    
    
      Except you get a lot of negatives the other way. 
    
    
      Right,  right, right. Um, and  then,  after - But after they done this waveform based normalization, they  then  do a  conversation  length normalization just like all the other features.
    
    
      So it's their kind of two stage normalization.
    
    
      Oh! 
    
    
      Oh! 
    
    
      Um now, I understand that the common practice  here  has been to just do c- standard uh mean subtraction, um on the waveform.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      For the C_zero.
    
    
      Right. But in what  we've  done so far, because we didn't have any special provision for  C_zero , we just treat it as - as any of the  other  features, we've done standard mean subtraction over the whole
    
    
      conversation side.
    
    
      So
    
    
      um since both S_R_I and ICSI use this sort of local normalization for C_zero that's presumably, you know, someone has done some experiments to - and found out that that works better.
    
    
      Um, so that's another difference, and that might account for some of the
    
    
      discrepancies in the results. Um, but you know. So the
    
    
      the  results  are 
    
    
       um
    
    
      Where should I start? Uh
    
    
      the -
    
    
      So there's a two -
    
    
      Oh. I tried it  with  and  without.  Uh.
    
    
      So  without 
    
    
      and with  adaptation. 
    
    
      How many iterations?
    
    
      For the adaptation?
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      Well, y- we always do three E_M iterations to
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      and it's - it's this - it's this quick and dirty -
    
    
      the  phone  loop adaptation which doesn't actually require prior recognition paths and - and so this is not the best you can  do  with adaptation, but it gives you sort of a first
    
    
      idea of what you could gain with it.
    
    
      And then, you know, so we have the
    
    
      the S_R_I front-end
    
    
      and the ICSI front-end
    
    
      and other than that the system configuration was identical. So it was the same -
    
    
      They came up with um
    
    
      you know, same number of uh Gaussians per state cluster
    
    
      Um, same - The clustering used the same information loss threshold, which actually led to roughly the same number of Gaussians overall. So that the system configuration is - is comparable.
    
    
      Um, and the -
    
    
      
    
    
      Uh, so  without  adaptation,
    
    
      you had forty-nine p-
    
    
      That's error rate or recognition rate?
    
    
      This is error rate
    
    
      in percent.
    
    
      And
    
    
      with adaptation
    
    
      it's forty-seven point one
    
    
      and
    
    
      this - this was fifty-two point six.
    
    
      and
    
    
      fifty-one point three
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      and then, when I combined them - I can actually combine them with
    
    
      something like ROVER. It's actually more sophisticated than ROVER but it's - 
    
    
      Um, here I got
    
    
      forty-eight point five
    
    
      and here I got forty-six point five.
    
    
      So this is just combination at the utterance level.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      At the utterance level, right.
    
    
      Why do you think the ICSI front-end is so much  worse? 
    
    
      Good  question.    That's fine .
    
    
      That seems really odd to me.
    
    
      Um, so, one percent I would attribute to the lack of V_T_L, about one percent. O_K.
    
    
      Oh right. Right, right, right.
    
    
      O_K. Ah O_K.
    
    
      And then maybe another up - I don't know how much the C_zero normalization business really matters I can't it see, I mean can't see it - the 
    
    
      Ca- can you run the S_R_I - Just as an experiment, run the S_R_I front-end without vocal tract norma- normalization, and see how much difference it makes?
    
    
      I  could.  Yeah.
    
    
      I could certainly do that. Yeah.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      We could  also  do the vocal tract length normalization with the  ICSI  features. That's something we wanted to do - yeah. We could - I was actually thinking we could use the warping factors that we compute for the M_F_C_C's
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      If we could figure out how.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      and just try them with the ICSI
    
    
      uh front-end. Because we already have the capability to apply the warping to the um -
    
    
      to the P_L_P c-  uh Dan added the  -
    
    
      Yeah, Dan added that in, but -
    
    
      Yeah, but the -
    
    
      So.
    
    
      They won't -
    
    
      they don't correspond one-to- one  though.
    
    
      No, but they  should  be
    
    
       close,  since this -
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean the -
    
    
      Anyway. But I can certainly try the S_R_I front-end without uh V_T_L. That sh- that's - that's certainly quick to do.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      Um
    
    
      and so -
    
    
      Yeah, and - and then there's all these um -
    
    
      You know, the number of um -
    
    
      You know, this  front-end 
    
    
      u- had a fair amount of experimentation going into it. You know, how many
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      filter banks do you use, what - what bandwidth do you use, and stuff like that. And uh we could play the same kind of games with the  ICSI  front-end.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Uh, actually, the  analysis  bandwidth played a very crucial role. We used to use a narrow bandwidth and
    
    
      uh
    
    
      uh that hurt us. So this is, um - And this is - We've now used roughly what everybody else is using. So
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      um, there's some room for improvements, I figure, in this - in the ICSI front-end.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      But the good news is that even with this - with the ICSI system being that much  worse,  you still get a win out of  combining  the two.
    
    
      So that gives some hope for the future.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Unfortunately however this seems to be reduced with adaptation, so.
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      Also interestingly
    
    
      the -
    
    
      Um, the difference actually  widens.  I would actually expect it or - or  hope  that the adaptation  reduces  the difference  because it might
    
    
      um, for instance,
    
    
      um
    
    
      remove some of the um -
    
    
      
    
    
      You know, som- If you - if you have some - some difference in the front-end processing that
    
    
      uh is suboptimal, but can be possibly remedied by you know moving the
    
    
      um
    
    
      moving the models around. But - but apparently that doesn't -
    
    
      doesn't really - actually the difference becomes larger, so.
    
    
      Um. Anyway. So right now what I'm doing is um -
    
    
      Uh well, there's several things going on. One is that Chuck is working on uh getting the tandem features um into a form that we can train the tandem - the system on the tandem features. So that would actually be the
    
    
      more  interesting  experiment.
    
    
      Um, the other thing is I'm training
    
    
      uh retraining the models on the large training set that we usually use to build our evaluation models and then we can -
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      And I actually  want  to
    
    
      do the  system  combination
    
    
      um  with  our  eval  system um, on some subset of the data at least, probably only for the males, because I don't have time to train both males and females, but um.
    
    
      Uh and um -
    
    
      What about ta-
    
    
      concatenating the two feature vectors into a single one?
    
    
      It gets pretty big.
    
    
      
    
    
      It  does  get pretty big. Yeah.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      And m- my experience with that in Broadcast News was usually combining at other levels works better.
    
    
      Hmm.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      For - for whatever that's worth.
    
    
      Oh, you tried that on Broadcast News? Concatenating
    
    
      Oh yeah.
    
    
      Yeah.
    
    
      So w- Yep.
    
    
      different feature sets? Yeah.
    
    
      Did you try uh -
    
    
      It was mostly M_S_G, P_L_P, RASTA.
    
    
      I see.
    
    
      So, you know, the feature sets we had available. And it was almost always better to combine at the probability level. You know, so we'd run the neural nets and combine the probabilities.
    
    
      I see.
    
    
      O_K.
    
    
      Alright.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      Yeah, and it  does  become sort of unwieldy to have these very large feature vectors. And that would
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      blow up the
    
    
      You'd also have to do some sort of normalization afterwards
    
    
      uh -
    
    
      so that they're uh orthogonal.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      So you'd wanna do a linear transform also.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Um
    
    
      so
    
    
      the - Yeah, and then we could start experimenting a little bit to try to get the ICSI front-end to perform better.
    
    
      Um. And - and as a preliminary just sort of diagnostic experiment we can - I can certainly run a S_R_I system without V_T_L
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      just uh to get -
    
    
      Wi- without what? Without V_T_L. O_K.
    
    
      Just -
    
    
      Vocal tract thing, yeah.
    
    
      Wh- Yeah.
    
    
      And that - that's quick to do.
    
    
      So.
    
    
      I was thinking about
    
    
      tandem system - Well, let's not talk about it here, but I had some thoughts about the tandem system.
    
    
      
    
    
      yeah so but things are moving ahead, so
    
    
      O_K, should we do digits?
    
    
      Digits. Sure.
    
    
      Do we have any other topics?
    
    
      O_K, let's do them one at a  time  instead of simultaneous since we actually have time.
    
    
      Poetic reading of digits.
    
    
      Oh no. 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one O_ five. 
    
    
      nine four two three two seven seven zero nine nine nine seven 
    
    
      O_ nine three eight zero O_ O_ one 
    
    
      two nine O_ eight five five eight seven seven five 
    
    
      three nine five five seven three four four seven nine 
    
    
      six two seven four two seven three eight O_ 
    
    
      eight six five seven zero nine one zero 
    
    
      three five two three zero nine five three 
    
    
      nine two five O_ two nine three three one two 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one zero eight. 
    
    
      six nine four eight seven three two two six two 
    
    
      five five eight seven eight two five two one O_ one nine 
    
    
      one two nine eight one zero six seven nine three 
    
    
      six five eight one nine five eight one 
    
    
      eight one five two one seven two O_ nine 
    
    
      three seven O_ four seven three two nine 
    
    
      zero one two nine six nine nine one three five five O_ 
    
    
      one three five nine nine five three one one six 
    
    
      Why don't we let Don go first before his battery dies?
    
    
      
    
    
      Mmm, O_K.
    
    
      
    
    
      Transcript L_ one O_ six. 
    
    
      two three eight eight seven seven eight one 
    
    
      eight zero four nine one zero seven two zero five seven two 
    
    
      eight nine eight eight six nine six one eight 
    
    
      two four two eight two six seven eight four seven 
    
    
      nine seven five five seven one five zero two zero 
    
    
      one three O_ nine seven two six two four seven zero eight 
    
    
      two two zero eight five seven nine six two zero 
    
    
      seven eight zero four five three six seven nine 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one O_ nine. 
    
    
      O_ nine O_ seven eight nine eight four three 
    
    
      eight six three six eight six eight five six 
    
    
      seven eight four four six five zero zero 
    
    
      seven six three five one five nine O_ O_ two 
    
    
      seven two O_ five eight O_ five six four seven three four 
    
    
      nine three four O_ one four nine two five 
    
    
      nine six nine eight five seven one O_ five eight 
    
    
      four seven seven zero six five seven  four  seven seven five 
    
    
      Do you wanna say that one again? That last one?
    
    
      Um, why? 
    
    
      Or did - did you correct the whole one?
    
    
      I - yeah, sure. Yeah no I - I gotta write, so - I think. Yeah.
    
    
      
    
    
      Oh he did? Never mind. O_K good. Alright. So. 
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      
    
    
      Alright. Transcript L_ ninety. 
    
    
      two three two one two four zero three 
    
    
      five O_ eight two nine one one two O_ 
    
    
      nine one nine O_ three two five nine two seven 
    
    
      two O_ seven four two seven three one three one 
    
    
      three seven six four four O_ two three nine three 
    
    
      nine five nine three five nine nine seven four three 
    
    
      one nine five one seven eight one three 
    
    
      eight zero three nine one seven nine nine eight O_ seven eight 
    
    
      Transcript L_ one zero seven. 
    
    
      one nine one seven one two nine six nine six eight six 
    
    
      nine seven two nine O_ two four five four 
    
    
      eight O_ nine seven one eight zero zero two 
    
    
      seven six four nine nine one two two six 
    
    
      three zero eight one six four zero one 
    
    
      two one three one eight five two six five seven eight zero 
    
    
      three O_ three eight three three eight seven four 
    
    
      one eight one four two eight four - 
    
    
      Sorry, start over. 
    
    
      one eight one four two eight two four five four 
    
    
      You can really tell from the prosody where it goes.
    
    
      s- meeting. I actually have one more thing that - I don't know if it's - i- if - if it's allowed to - to bring up after the dis-
    
    
      After digits, I don't know.
    
    
      Anyway.
    
    
      But it might be important. For um - So Liz remarked that she had recorded a meeting where
    
    
      Go ahead.
    
    
      it was later found that several of the
    
    
      s- microphones were turned off, um
    
    
      Mm-hmm.
    
    
      and this must become a problem especially with non-speech-meetings.
    
    
      So um
    
    
      is there a way that the software could warn you if it gets zeros from
    
    
      some of the channels, or - ? 
    
    
      Probably. We could probably build that in to the front-end.
    
    
      Because it - you know it's really annoying if you go through all that trouble and then basically the meetings aren't useable because uh even -
    
    
      What are people doing, they're switching their mikes off or something?
    
    
      I don't  know  what they do. Maybe the batteries went dead, or th- they just didn't - they played with the thing and it didn't leave it in the "on" position or whatever.
    
    
      I don't know, uh eh. Fff. 
    
    
      What would you like it to  do  when that happens? 
    
    
      Well, no, if - if you um - I mean obviously you always -
    
    
      I mean, there's never gonna be a signal from all the channels, right? because - or  rarely. 
    
    
      Um.
    
    
      But uh.
    
    
      Well if an unblacked out channel is zero, is actually spitting out zeros, you can be pretty sure it's  off. 
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Because it doesn't spit out zeros, it spits out epsilons.
    
    
      Right? Cuz there's little background noise. The question is, when the software  detects  it, what do you want it to  do? 
    
    
      Exactly.
    
    
      That's a good  question.  I don't  know.  But is there some - We can collectively think of some - of some mechanism that might reduce the risk of - of just -
    
    
      
    
    
      I mean, it - it - it -
    
    
      We - we  already  have visual feedback, right? You can  see  whether your mike is working or not. Um.
    
    
      Right.
    
    
      Right. So maybe it's just to admonish people to actually look at the screen at the beginning of the meeting to make sure they get a signal.
    
    
      Yep.
    
    
      Test -
    
    
      Turn off the screen saver during the meeting.
    
    
      Tell them to test their mikes, or -
    
    
      Yeah, something.
    
    
      I think they sh-
    
    
      Yeah, I d- I don't know what to do other than -
    
    
      It - it can beep if one of the channels dies while recording.
    
    
      There's no sound out right now.
    
    
      Oh.
    
    
      
    
    
      Never mind.
    
    
      It should give the electric shock to the person recording the meeting.
    
    
      Yep. Yep. Yeah yeah. That would be good. Well, we can think about what to do about it, but it -
    
    
      Oh yeah. That's a good one.
    
    
      Wow, that's not a bad idea.
    
    
      Yeah. O_K.
    
    
      It's pretty clear we  can  detect it, so.
    
    
      Yeah. Alright.
    
    
      O_K. Are we done?
    
    
      Yeah.
    
   
   
      
         I would say between the ages of 7 to 10 years old it, was a really big thing to go to the movie on Saturday mornings.
         And one particular movie theater we went to, they would show serials every Saturday, which were a continued story.
         So if you missed one Saturday you would miss what happened in a particular episode and you, um, wouldn't know what had taken place.
         So we would go every Saturday morning.
         And also at this theater, they gave prizes to different people.
         And one of the way they gave prizes was, they would take big group photos and everybody, and there were stairs going up to a balcony, real wide stairs.
         And the big group of people would go stand on the stairs and there would be probably 30 or 40 kids in the picture.
         And they'd take the picture and then you would go back the next Saturday after they had been developed and they would have circled 3 or 4 people in the picture and the people whose head was circled would get the prizes.
      
      
         Is that for real?
      
      
         That's for real!
         That really happened!
         And one time I can remember, I think it was Steve, my brother, um, he, and they would give treats like candy, I don't even remember what all kinds of prizes the would give.
         But for some reason, and I think this is really true, he got ice cream sandwiches!
         Like a box of ice cream sandwiches.
         And of course there's nothing to do with a box of ice cream sandwiches when you're at a 2-hour movie!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         They're going to melt!
         And another, um, that was in, that was in High Point, NC.
         And then we moved to Charlotte and we used to go to - and I don't think its even still there I don't know if the building is or not - but the Dilworth Theatre.
         I lived in the Dilworth area, and we would go to the Dilworth Theatre and I do remember that it cost 9 cents to get a ticket to get in.
         And we would, could go to the movie.
         We would get maybe 15 cents each to go to the movie, and I sound like I'm 95 years old-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -with those kinds of prices.
         Um, but we would go to the movie and then you would go in and get your, your snack that you wanted.
         And there were several different choices.
         I don't ever remember getting popcorn at the movie until I was a teenager or in my adult life.
         But we would, uh, buy, lollipops is what they call them now, but we called them suckers and we would get often a 2-cent sucker.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Are you making fun?
      
      
         No, I love this story.
      
      
         And the 2-cent suckers is what is referred to now as a Tootsie Roll Pop.
         And we called them 2-cent suckers because every other sucker cost a penny.
         Except these were 2 cents because they had the Tootsie Roll in the middle.
         And there was one other sucker that cost a nickel and we called that an all day sucker, just because you couldn't eat the whole thing for the entire movie and you would really just have that sucker all day long.
         And one other form of refreshment that we got, which really embarrassed my mother because she didn't know anything about this until she went with us to the movie one Saturday, there was a bakery next door to the movie theatre.
         And my brothers and myself were not the only people that did this; all the kids that would go to the movie knew to do this.
         We would go into the bakery and we would ask for-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -a nickel worth of scraps!
         
         
      
      
         And we didn't even have to ask for it because the bakery lady knew us and she knew to have all this ready for all the kids going to the movie.
         And what it was it was broken cookies and broken pieces of whatever happened while they were baking, mistakes.
         So they would fill little bags for us and we would give them a nickel and we could take that to the movie theatre with us.
         And that's all the stories I can remember about the movies right now.
         I do know that I did used to go the movie downtown at the Carolina Theatre.
         And when I was young, it wasn't a strange thing for the kids to just go off and go to a movie.
         I mean, my mother knew where we were going and she knew when we would get back, but today you wouldn't send your seven or eight year old child to a movie theatre alone even if they were with their nine year old brother; you just wouldn't do it.
         And we could skate to the movie or ride a bicycle to the movie and we would do that.
         Which is kind of sad that you can't do that anymore and it's not just because things are, there're bad people in the world but it's too much traffic.
         You have to check everything about a movie, check it out to see what the content is and just wasn't like that when I was growing up
         .
         Also about that same time period in my life, I guess again between seven and ten years old, which seems to be what I remember most vividly, my best friend uh, was Kathy Josey, and she was a next door neighbor also, and we remained friends up until, uh, she was about 35 and she passed away with cancer.
         But we, we remained close friends.
         In fact we shared an apartment, first apartment either one of us ever had.
         And when we were, um, little girls we used to play "Career Girls"!
         
         We did!
         And we used to try to dress up and pretend we were businesswomen.
         And we would go to work and pretend we had an apartment together and then when we grew up, we sure did; we got an apartment.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Um, Kathy and I also used to play other kind of dress ups and it just, it seems like, I remember we both had like our mother's long skirts, or the skirts would be long on us and we would literally wear dress up clothes that belonged to our mothers.
         But we had, Kathy had one pair of pearls or beads of some sort of necklace that was her mother's and I didn't have the necklace.
         And it was really beautiful and I really, really wanted one.
         So we only had the one necklace and we, er, we decided, I don't know if it was jointly or if Kathy was just extremely nice of whatever, but she said I could wear it part of the time.
         And we would literally time the amount of time, we wore it like 30 minutes or 15 minutes or whatever.
         And the way we decided who got to wear it first, and this always kind of bothered me because I know Kathy did this intentionally, she said the youngest one got to wear it first and she was like six months younger than I am.
         So, it, that became
         a normal thing with us.
         Whenever we only had one of something she would always say, "Well, I think the youngest one gets to do it, or wear it or whatever first."
         And, that just always stuck in my mind, that in, in our adult life I brought that up to her and she sort of acted like she didn't know anything about that and I thought to myself, "she does," and then she laughed about it and she realized that she had kinda held a trump card on that one.
         Um, also we did a lot of pretending and as I said we played career girls and the dress ups.
         And my sister and I used to pretend also and Jill is about 2 years younger than I am, maybe two and a half, and we used to play Robin Hood except we didn't have a Maid Marion, we had a Saretha, I don't know where in the world that name came from.
         But we would switch playing Robin Hood, one would play Robin Hood and one would play Saretha.
         And Saretha was the counter, would be the same thing as Maid Marion, and, why, again, I don't know why we didn't use Maid Marion.
         But in my mind I can remember playing that, like all day long.
         And we would go over to my grandparents' and they had a a big white house with a big front porch and, uh, banisters on it and a lot of rocking chairs out on the front porch.
         And it was just a great place to pretend and we would climb up on the porch and on the banisters and we could make those our horses or, uh, it could be a castle; just do many things with it.
         Um, and when we were still living in High Point in our back yard we had a huge, I don't know, I guess it was an oak tree, but it was a really big tree, but it was a climbable tree.
         And it had real large, thick branches extending out to the side and they were fat enough branches where as a child of eight and nine years old we could straddle the branches.
         And that was another game that Jill and I used to play; we would pretend we were in the jungle and we would climb up on the tree and we would straddle the tree branches and pretend it was our elephant.
         And in the yard, we had an old tree that had been cut down and just the stump was remaining and my mother had planted, um, flowers all around that stump and we would use that stump as a, as a throne and the princess got to sit up on that stump on that throne and have all those flowers around her and that would be the throne and she would be the queen or the princess or whatever.
         When I was a teenager, an Audrey Hepburn movie came out called Wait Until Dark.
         And I think I was probably 16 or 17 years old; we were of driving age.
         And I had a group of girlfriends that I ran around with and there were, golly, there might've been 8 to 10 of us who were good friends.
         Everybody had their own "best" friend but then we had one big group that we used to do a lot of things together.
         Um, and we would, had that many girls but we would only go out in a couple of cars and I remember one of the girls, Betty Belle, her dad had a VW Beetle, and we'd fit like 5 girls in that VW Beetle.
      
      
         Did Betty Belle turn Catholic?
      
      
         No, huh-uh.
      
      
         She didn't?
      
      
         No.
         So we went out one night to the movie, but before we went to the movie we went to get pizza and then we went to, and I think the name of the place was The Open Kitchen, and we didn't have chain pizza places like we do now, like Pizza Hut and all that.
         This was just a really neat pizza place that all the kids would go.
         And we went to Open Kitchen and we would have eight or 10 girls and we would order one pizza and all share it and everyone would only get one piece and I think we would make the waitresses mad because we didn't have money to leave tips.
         We would also drink water.
         So it wasn't a good situation for the waitresses, but we had fun and we didn't even think about it.
         We just did what we could get away with.
         Anyway, that night we were gonna go see Wait Until Dark and I think it was on at the Manor Theatre, and I just remember when you have like 10 or so girls going somewhere to the same place it's kind of a, pretty much of a spectacle; we're all in this long line and we're giggling and laughing and cutting up and having really a great time.
         So we bought our tickets and we went into the Manor Theatre and we found a row of seats and we sat, file, all filed in.
         And I just remember seeing, and I was sitting in a middle section, I was not on an end so I had girls I knew on both sides of me.
         And I just remember that movie was, had a lot of hype about being really scary and suspenseful and it's nothing like these movies that are out today like Scream and, what is it?
         Nightmare on Elm Street whatever it is, where they're actual horror movies.
         This was, uh, a real intense, um, drama and, just very scary; kept you on the edge of your seat.
         And there was a scene in the movie I remember where every one of us, and it wasn't just our group, but so many people in the theatre, they screamed out at one time.
         And that's really all I remember about that night, it was just a lot of fun.
         And I really hope that my daughters have had some nights like that and has had good times like that, that I can remember going out with good friends.
      
   


   
   
      
         Welcome back to our show!
         OK.
         This is Maria, and I don't know your last name.
      
      
         Polk.
      
      
         Oh that's good.
         From Polkton, Maria Polk.
         OK.
         And where did you grow up?
         Were you born in this area here?
      
      
         I was born in Cottonville.
         Right outside of Norwood in Stanley County.
      
      
         Oh, OK.
         When you were little, did your mom read you books, or did somebody read you books in your house?
      
      
         My mama read to me and my sister.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         What kind of books were your favorites?
         Do you remember any that were maybe a real favorite of yours?
      
      
         Mm, I kind of liked them all.
         Um, I didn't really have a favorite.
      
      
         No?
         Any particular types, like ones with pictures or
         .
         Can you think of a story that they told you that you liked for them to read over and over?
      
      
         Um, I think my favorite was like, "Little Red Riding Hood;" I loved that book.
      
      
         "Little Red Riding Hood"?
         So when you read to yourself did you read different stories than the ones they would read to you?
      
      
         Mmm, basically, something different.
      
      
         Did you get to go to the library when you were little?
      
      
         Uh-huh, all the time.
      
      
         Yeah.
         So, you would check books out?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Mostly, I liked to spend time reading encyclopedias--
      
      
         Oh, really?
      
      
         --when I was little.
      
      
         You like to read encyclopedias.
         In your family, do you remember if there was any storyteller?
      
      
         Well, my uncle was always telling stories and, uh, we had this house across the street from where I grew up that was old and he ever finished it.
         He started it and he told stories that, um, um, men being in it that house at night and stuff and for us not to go outside at night.
      
      
         Would he scare you?
      
      
         Yeah.
         So we, at a certain time, we were scared to go over there because we'd always go outside and look at the house across the street.
      
      
         Um, did he tell stories to big groups of people, or just one-on-one?
      
      
         Just to our cousins and all of us that hung around each other all the time.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Now, do you have kids at your house?
      
      
         No.
         Only, only on Sunday: my niece and nephew and my cousins.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Do you like to read to them?
         Do they bring their books over?
      
      
         I read to my niece.
         She likes the pop-out books.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         How old is she?
      
      
         She's, ah
         six.
         She likes the pictures that pop out at you.
         She likes for me to read them to her.
      
      
         Can she read to herself yet?
      
      
         Not yet, but she tries to.
         Mostly, she just looks at the pictures.
      
      
         Is she, what grade is she in?
         Do you know?
      
      
         She's in kindergarten.
      
      
         She's in kindergarten?
         OK.
         That's pretty much all I need to know, about how you liked reading and things when you were little.
         Is there anything else you'd like to say about this, that comes to your mind?
      
      
         No, not so much.
      
   

  
   
   
      
         Hi my name is Sandra Reid and I am part of a family of seven children, um, and my mom and dad have passed away.
         During our young years we were very poor.
         
         We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.
         One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.
         Even though my mom told us lot of scary stories she was always there to hold us in her arms and let us know that the story was not true and that it was we were OK.
         Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house.
         All of my sisters learned to cook by the age of eight.
         I learned after I got married
         so I was a pretty lazy child when it came down to cleaning up and cooking.
         So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.
         Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.
         Just anything to get out of doing my job.
         So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.
         So she began to tell this story.
         Once upon a time there was this little girl and her family.
         And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.
         And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.
         I don't want to.
         My leg hurts, my head hurts.
         I don't feel good."
         The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?"
         So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you."
         So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes."
         And she was in there stomping and crying and mad and taking all her good time.
         All of a sudden the butcher knife came out of the drawer and it began to roll around in the air.
         And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off.
         And when the little girl went to heaven she was crying down to her dad and saying "Daddy, Daddy!
         Mama cut my head off with the butcher knife."
         Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.
         But the wonderful thing about it my mom was always there close by to let me know that I was OK.
         Now after that, my mother continued to tell us many, many scary stories and tell us many, many, many poems.
         I'd like to tell you about how I got into becoming a teacher's assistant.
         All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school.
         That was my dream, to teach school.
         As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this.
         Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college."
         So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you."
         So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.
         It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.
         But because there are so many children in the family there are other things you're going to have to have to go to school and I just don't have the money."
         At that time my dad was in prison at the time, so it made it really hard for my mom.
         I sat there and I cried but I tried to be as understanding as possible because I knew my mother struggled really hard to even keep food on the table for us.
         So I never got a chance to go to school.
      
      
         Did anybody?
      
      
         Yes, my brother went to school.
         He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too.
         So he graduated from, um, Johnson C. Smith, here in Charlotte.
         I had another sister who went to Gaston College where she got a business degree there.
         I, in later years, I went on to college some but I didn't complete the, uh, whole four years.
         Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.
         If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy."
         As the years went by my prayer was answered and I got the chance to work in the cafeteria as a cashier and the principal there came up to me and said, "Have you considered being a teacher assistant?"
         I said, "I would love to."
         So they told me about some classes that I could take at Central Piedmont.
         I'd never gone to college before.
         I was really afraid.
         But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.
         After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like."
         Luckily I had all A's.
         I did very well.
         And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.
         Um, my dream, my prayers were answered.
         I enjoy my job very much.
         I can't think of any job that would make me any happier.
         A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education.
         At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, "Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply."
         And he told me I would have to write this paper.
         Well I didn't like writing at the time
         but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.
         And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.
         And I went ahead and mailed it in thinking uh I won't get the scholarship.
         Who cares?
         I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy.
         But one day I came in and I looked at my mail and I was accepted.
         
         I couldn't believe it.
         Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.
         So I went on and took the courses, and as I started I think I was taking economics.
         I think that was the last class I took.
         My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.
      
      
         But you would have been able to be a, a teacher if you had continued?
      
      
         Yeah, and at the time, I was also working in the classroom.
         I guess you'd say as a sub because the teacher that I was working with at that time was pregnant and she had to take a leave of absence.
         And they hired a sub but the sub didn't do that much.
         I had to take over the classroom.
         So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting
         to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.
         After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.
         I just got to a certain age and I said, "No I can't do this anymore," so I never went back.
         But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.
      
      
         How many different schools did you teach at?
      
      
         I've only worked at two, two schools.
         The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down.
         So I was in those situations where I first, come first, transfer last, come first to transfer out.
         So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.
         I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.
         But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.
         If I'm not mistaken I think I've been at Berryhill for I think 17 years, 17, 18 years I've been here at Berryhill so and I hope I never have to leave until I retire.
         
      
      
         And why did the other school close down?
      
      
         Um, the, you know, I really don't know.
         Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.
         I really don't, I don't remember why that school was ever closed but it was.
         And I enjoy what I do.
         That's it.
      
      
         All right thank you.
      
      
         Thank you.
      
   
   
   
      
         My name is Bonnie Rindner and I was born in San Antonio, TX, and the story I'm going to tell is about my mother.
         Um, a little background first.
         Her, let's see, her mother's family were wealthy people at one time.
         They owned car dealerships and extensive land.
         Um, I don't know if they were farmers or not, but I know they were land owners, um, many acres and, um, her grandmother was raised in wealth.
         Uh, then the Depression came and apparently everyone lost all their money.
         Um, she was raised in MO, and she married a man, this is my grandmother I'm talking about.
         And they were very poor by this point, and they had, I think, seven children.
         And one particular Christmas, things were very, very difficult.
         There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.
         Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.
         And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.
      
      
         And how long have you lived in Charlotte?
      
      
         Oh, I have lived in Charlotte, um, for a year.
         Um, I lived in Charlotte for five years.
         We came here in 1986, we lived here for five years, then we moved to Raleigh for seven years and now we've been back one year.
      
      
         Well, good.
